Imagine being able to board a bus shortly after arriving at the stop. If the front of the bus is too crowded, enter the back door and find a seat. The bus then glides down a dedicated lane with traffic signals set to green, taking you from Jackson Heights, Queens, to Bushwick, Brooklyn, in 25 minutes.Cities like London and Oslo already have bus service like this. Last week, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced changes that could make this scenario a reality  including a full redesign of New York Citys bus routes and all-door boarding.But one key thing is missing from the plan. The New York City Department of Transportation  whose jurisdiction falls under Mayor Bill de Blasio  controls the traffic flow on the streets buses travel. Therefore leadership from Mr. de Blasio is essential to any effort to transform bus service. The mayor campaigned on a vision of making New York a fairer, more equitable city. With the bold new plan issued by the transit authority, he has an opportunity to help two million of the citys residents reach their destinations quickly.Bus riders in New York generally have lower incomes and are more likely to be minorities and immigrants than subway riders. Buses can improve connections in neighborhoods where there are few or no subway stops, including high-density, lower-income areas like East Flatbush in Brooklyn and Hunts Point in the Bronx. Because only a fourth of subway stations have elevators, buses are essential for people for whom the subway is not accessible, like wheelchair users and anyone who has difficulty navigating stairs.The de Blasio administration does have a bus initiative, Select Bus Service, which includes dedicated bus lanes, but, under this program, only two or three of New York Citys 238 local bus routes are upgraded per year.New York buses are the slowest of any big city in the country, wait times are unpredictable and by both measures, things are getting worse. Its not surprising that ridership on buses in the city dropped 21 percent between 2002-2017, a period when the citys population grew by 7 percent. Those who can access another option for getting around increasingly do.The millions still relying on buses are facing difficulty getting where they need to go in a timely manner. According to the Center for an Urban Future, health care workers are burdened with the longest average commutes of any sector of the citys economy. Nurses and home health care aides, whose jobs are often beyond reach of the subway, are increasingly worn down by trips that take much longer than they should.The problem is due in part to traffic congestion, and the mayors ability to control the flow of traffic gives him two powerful tools: dedicated bus lanes and priority at traffic signals. Those low-cost strategies have proven very effective at dramatically increasing bus speeds and reliability, and expanding bus usage, in cities like London, Seattle, Seoul and San Francisco.Its logical to question the value of bus lanes in New York today. They are often blocked by cars and trucks and are used by the police for parking. Despite being weakened by those violations, bus lanes have still sped up travel times on routes that have them. For example, the addition of a bus lanes on First and Second Avenues in Manhattan increased travel speed by 11 percent. If respected and enforced, bus lanes would do much more to speed and increase reliability of bus trips.Buses in New York spend roughly 20 percent of their time at red lights. The city has the technology to time traffic signals to turn green when a bus approaches, but only applies it to a small fraction of intersections. In addition to dramatically stepping up deployment of smarter signals, the city could also adjust passive signal timing to optimize bus movement on many more avenues.The administration announced in July 2017, that it is planning to expand signal priority to just a handful of the citys local bus routes each year, far too meager to help turn the system around.Mr. de Blasio can leave an important legacy of transportation fairness and equity by implementing an ambitious plan that prioritizes public transit on city streets, including 10 new bus lanes and signal priority on at least 20 new routes each year. He should direct the New York City Police Department to enforce transit-only lanes. The mayor campaigned on addressing growing inequality in the city, but his lack of leadership is unfairly leaving bus riders at the curb.
