Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the weeks most notable new songs and videos  and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. This week, Kanye West contributes an honest verse to Travis Scott, Dirty Projectors David Longstreth leaves his breakup music behind and 14-year-old Joey Alexander debuts new original tunes.Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.Christina Aguilera featuring Ty Dolla Sign and 2 Chainz, AccelerateWhat is happening here? Christina Aguilera, possessor of one of the great voices of the 2000s, has been mostly silent the last five years. And with her new single Accelerate  from the forthcoming album Liberation, due in June  shes something not far from silent, one small piece in a fantastically weird puzzle. Accelerate, produced by Kanye West, Che Pope and Mike Dean, sounds like its built from spare parts: Ty Dolla Signs moans and yelps, sinuous keyboard lines, a charmingly staccato verse from 2 Chainz. Somewhere in there is Ms. Aguilera, under-singing and trying not to get pushed into a corner. And yet despite these disparate inputs, theres something loose and admirable happening here: Everyone is trying new things, and the disarray verges on flamboyance. JON CARAMANICADirty Projectors, Break-ThruBreak-Thru is the first glimpse of the Dirty Projectors album due in July, Lamp Lit Prose, and with it the groups songwriter, David Longstreth, leaves behind the sullen, disjointed breakup songs from the previous Dirty Projectors album. A perky Afropop guitar lick and a buzzy synthesizer hop and cackle around him as he praises a new love in happy staccato bursts: She is an epiphany/her electricity. JON PARELESJoey Alexander, FourteenThe 14-year-old virtuoso Joey Alexander is already on his fourth solo album, and Eclipse, out Friday, is his most engrossing yet. Recorded on the day of the solar eclipse in 2017, it finds the pianist sounding uninhibited, letting some sweat fly. As always, his harmonies are a great marvel, and these pieces tend to have an exuberant bounce  carried off with the bassist Reuben Rogers and the drummer Eric Harland  somewhere between swing rhythm, calypso and Javanese propulsion. Six of Eclipses 11 tracks are originals; Fourteen is a highlight with an appearance by the eminent tenor saxophonist Joshua Redman. An intensely responsive soloist, he maneuvers with assurance as Mr. Alexander dances about him, bright chords and buzzing inflections laying fresh bait at every turn.  GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOTravis Scott featuring Kanye West and Lil Uzi Vert, WatchAfter a rather draining few weeks in the public life of Kanye West comes this vivid verse, on a new Travis Scott song (produced by Pierre Bourne) with a cuddly Lil Uzi Vert chorus. Mr. West lets down the veil a bit, giving chum to voyeurs while also taking them to task:Wanna know how I feel? Step into my minefield?Wanna know how pain feels? I got off my main pillsBet my wifey stay close, she know Im on my BezosOpioid addiction, pharmacys the real trapSometimes I feel trapped, Jordan with no Phil JackOne year its Illuminati, next year its the Sunken PlaceJ.C.Protomartyr featuring Kelley Deal, Wheel of FortuneJoe Casey, the vocalist and lyricist of the post-punk band Protomartyr, posits capitalism as a grim reaper in Wheel of Fortune, from the bands coming EP. I decide who lives and who dies, he growls, with backup vocals from Kelley Deal of the Breeders turning it into a melody. The song is a suite of three disparate sections  two carrying lyrics, one wordless with a spooky high vocal, each section a crescendo of increasing density and dissonance. As the pressure rises, Mr. Casey observes things like A man with a gun and a deluded sense of purpose/A good guy with a gun who missed/A police state desperate to reach quota. No happy endings here. J.P.Parker Millsap, Gotta Get to YouThe growl and holler of Parker Millsaps vocals rough up his meticulous songwriting: terse wordplay, targeted melodies and detailed arrangements that deploy the instruments of a roots-rock band with rigorous economy. Gotta Get to You, from his new album Other Arrangements, takes obsession to existential extremes  Im cutting through the chatter/Im battling the bleak abyss  as shifting layers of acoustic and electric guitars make it rock furiously without any drums. J.P.Remember Sports, The 1 Bad ManCarmen Perry is in a good mood delivering bad vibes on The 1 Bad Man, from Remember Sportss third album, Slow Buzz, due later this month. When she sings, its potent and unsteady, and captures the anxiety of miscommunication  or rather, communicating at cross purposes  in tidy fashion. And behind her, the band is authoritatively slack on a mildly rootsy ramble. J.C.Jessie Reyez, Body CountScraggly, slightly out of tune guitar picking runs through Body Count, but it shouldnt be mistaken for fragility or diffidence. Jessie Reyez bluntly puts her partner of the moment on notice that shes keeping things casual and staying autonomous. Time wont let you stay young, she sings, So we dont care what they say/We gon love who we wanna love. Abetted by the longtime producer and songwriter Babyface, the music stays sparse and cunning; trap percussion and blithe backup voices pop in, affirm her, and vanish. J.P.Cheat Codes, BalenciagaBlissfully dim dance music for a summer on the beach and in the club (which is also on the beach). This song cements Balenciagas primacy in the popular fashion imagination  Do you ever think about me? But you Balenciaga and Prada/that bougie kind of love aint cheap  while also portending its doom following what may well be months of runway-themed fist pumps. J.C.Ben LaMar Gay, UvasThe cornetist, multi-instrumentalist and vocalist Ben LaMar Gay has been recording music for a while  he just hasnt been releasing it. Downtown Castles Can Never Block the Sun, his first official album, pulls from seven different discs hes created over the past few years and passed around to family and friends. Based in both Chicago and Brazil, Mr. Gay is an artist with great conviction but no use for stability  or perhaps no trust in it. Herein lies dark soundscaping, tropicalia on tenterhooks, broken beat, Tuareg melodies, Baha drumming. On the low, staticky murmur of Uvas, the sonic walls close in tight around you: You might hear it as claustrophobia, or comfort. G.R.Leon Bridges, Mrs.Even a superb singer needs songs. Leon Bridges, the Texas-based singer and songwriter whose voice harks back to both the suave tenderness and the churchy grit of Sam Cooke, is still underserved by his material on his major-label debut album, Good Thing, although he is now collaborating with song doctors like Justin Tranter and Ricky Reed. But Mrs., a bluesy throwback to Southern soul tucked near the end of the album, approaches his potential. Its about a combative but still amorous marriage  I remember how it felt the first few times/Skin to skin before you knew how to get under mine  and Mr. Bridges captures every bit of the  ambivalent longing. J.P.Tom Tripp, Loving You MoreTom Tripp is a young British singer with a tender and light voice that recalls a young Craig David, and this sweet and easy thumper is hypnotic minimal lite-soul with Afrobeats and dancehall flourishes. Sticky and coy. J.C.Venetian Snares x Daniel Lanois, HpShk5050 P127Collaboration as collision fills Venetian Snares x Daniel Lanois, an album of improvisational duets between two Mr. Lanois on pedal steel guitar and Aaron Funk, a.k.a. Venetian Snares, on electronics that include real-time processing of the pedal steel. In HpShk5050 P127, Mr. Lanois sets out edgeless, weightless, swaying consonances; Venetian Snares zaps them with bursts of superhumanly frenetic percussion, teases at a near-reggae bass line and sends echoes skidding all around. Theyre working at cross-purposes, but together. J.P.Ganavya, Indo BlueGanavya creates a lush twine out of American and South Asian traditions, and on Aikyam: Onnu, this vocalist and scholars majestic debut album, the upshot feels more like an expansive invitation than any definable hybrid. Ganavya has populated jazz standards with lyrics from Tamil poetry and songs of anticolonial resistance; the rendition of Afro Blue here features Oscar Browns typical lyrics as well as a devotional poem by Kanhopatra, a Marathi saint. No matter the language or the content, Ganavyas voice is a thick ephemera, like smoke as dark as ink, just coming off the fire. G.R.
