(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. The New York attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, has resigned, hours after being accused of physically assaulting four women he was involved with.Two of the women told The New Yorker magazine on the record that Mr. Schneiderman had choked them and hit them repeatedly. Hes pictured above in his office last year.Throughout Mr. Schneidermans long public career, he has cast himself as a staunch defender of womens rights, but he is better known these days as a legal antagonist of President Trump._____2. President Trump waded into West Virginias Republican primary race for the Senate.At the urging of Senator Mitch McConnell, Mr. Trump implored voters to oppose the former coal executive Don Blankenship, above, who was convicted of conspiring to violate mine safety rules after a 2010 explosion that killed 29 people. A number of states are holding primary elections on Tuesday that carry big implications for this falls midterms, which could see Republicans lose control of Congress.The president signaled that anxiety on Twitter, lashing out at prosecutors leading the Russia inquiry and asking if this Phony Witch Hunt would affect the elections. Heres our fact check of his claims about two former F.B.I. officials._____3. The security aspect is smoke and mirrors.That was a former top aide to Scott Pruitt, the secretive chief of the Environmental Protection Agency. Newly disclosed emails show that the agencys close control of his public events is more about avoiding tough questions from the public than about security. Here are highlights from the documents.Mr. Pruitt, above in front of an image of Yosemite National Park, currently faces 11 investigations into his spending and management at the E.P.A. White House aides are urging President Trump to fire him.Carrying out the Trump administrations agenda with less controversy: Mick Mulvaney. We looked at how hes dismantling the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, an Obama-era watchdog agency vilified by Republicans._____4. The future of the Iran nuclear deal should be clearer tomorrow.President Trump, above, said he would announce at 2 p.m. whether he would pull the U.S. out of the 2015 pact. Diplomats told us that he appeared inclined to scrap it and reimpose sanctions on Iran.But it was uncertain if he might moderate that move, perhaps by allowing European nations to have economic relations with Tehran without being penalized by the U.S.Worries about the deal pushed prices for American crude oil above $70 a barrel for the first time since 2014._____5. The rapid spread of H.I.V. is threatening an entire indigenous population in Venezuela.Collapsing government programs, shortages of medicine and a lack of information have contributed to the epidemic plaguing Warao villagers in the isolated Orinoco Delta.Im like a soldier without a weapon, lamented a nurse who needed far more antiretroviral drugs. I cant do anything._____6. Theres no sign of it slowing down.The erupting Kilauea volcano in Hawaii continues to spew lava into residential neighborhoods and has destroyed nearly three dozen buildings so far.Hundreds of earthquakes have hit the island of Hawaii, and officials have warned of the threat of high levels of deadly sulfur dioxide gas. Watch video of the eruption._____7. The National Rifle Association announced its next president, and its a familiar name.Oliver North, above, who rose to prominence in the 1980s for his role in the Iran-contra scandal, will take the helm of the gun rights organization in a few weeks.In recent years he has been active as a political commentator, author and television host. Hell be taking over at a politically delicate time, after a spate of mass shootings._____8. With lethal injection facing mounting problems, states are moving toward an untested alternative: execution by nitrogen gas.Oklahoma, Alabama and Mississippi have authorized such use of nitrogen and are developing protocols to use it. But its a leap into the unknown, as there is no scientific data on the proposed method.And some medical experts are skeptical that its painless._____9. At 22, hes one of the best players in college baseball. But as a teenager he pleaded guilty to molesting his 6-year-old niece.Luke Heimlich, above, a pitcher for Oregon State, now denies committing the crime and has his sights set on the major leagues.Most Oregon State fans are standing behind him. The victims mother, however, said last year that she was appalled that he was still on the team.Separately, in a case watched closely by other colleges, Massachusettss highest court ruled that M.I.T. could not be held responsible for the suicide of a student in 2009._____10. If California were a country, it would have the fifth-largest economy in the world.The states growth has reinforced a liberal narrative, that a state with a big government can still have a booming economy. Strict environmental protections, a progressive tax policy and an ascendant minimum wage havent slowed the surge. Above, San Francisco.Prosperity has come with pain: traffic, property prices, homelessness. But the states economic success has underpinned its defiance of the Trump administration._____11. Finally, would you undress for a museum tour?Our writer did just that along with 161 other people at the Palais de Tokyo in Paris. Working with a nudist group, the art museum invited naked visitors on a tour of exhibitions focused mostly on political strife and resistance.For a complete contrast, check out our photos of the Met Galas red carpet. (Rihanna went all out on the theme of the influence of Catholicism on fashion.)Have a great night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
