Dear Match Book,I recently read Shaman, by Kim Stanley Robinson, on the recommendation of my husband. It was a book I wouldnt have chosen for myself, but I fell in love with it. I typically gravitate toward humorous, strong women writers: Lydia Davis, Diane Williams, Joy Williams and Grace Paley are all heroes of mine. But now I mostly just want to go back in time! Im on the hunt for other quiet books, heavy on nature, and I particularly want to read more about our earliest ancestors.I like historical fiction, two favorites being The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet, by David Mitchell, and Wolf Hall, by Hilary Mantel. And I enjoy the poetry of Mary Oliver, Walt Whitman, Matsuo Basho and Yosa Buson. I would love more distractions that take me outdoors, among animals, or concern the oldest of us.ARIELLE WALSHASHEVILLE, N.C.Dear Arielle,Although it seems like ancient history now, among the books that fascinated me in childhood were the thick mass-market paperbacks of Jean M. Auels ice age Earths Children series that I filched from my mothers shelf. In addition to the epic sex scenes, which swell with romance writing (eager manhood, prodigious manhood, magnificent manhood), the books also introduced my preteen self to that pervasive trope  the heroine who remains oblivious to her own beauty. And though I showed up for the carnal bits, I stayed for the aurochs horns and grassy steppes  detailed lessons about Neanderthal life right alongside the racy education.Inside and OutHistory and science take lyrical turns in two books of essays, both by poets, that hew to your literary tastes. All manner of earthy treasures  a Bronze Age clay bowl, cave etchings, rare birds  turn up in Kathleen Jamies wry and contemplative Sightlines. Charged with a fiery, activist tone, the Native writer Linda Hogans Dwellings includes close studies of bats, snakes,porcupines and other wonders that reveal the mystery of nature and spirit.Lost and FoundThe discovery of Richard IIIs body under a parking lot in Leicester, England, in 2012 ended the long search for the remains of the 15th-century king, but it also delivered a startling, dissonant reminder: History lies just beneath our feet. Similarly, the past collides with the present in some of the stories in Margaret Atwoods Wilderness Tips. Julie broke up with Connor in the middle of a swamp, reads the first line of The Bog Man, about an affair between a student and her professor that is carried on, in part, near an archaeological dig during which the 2,000-year-old body of a man is unearthed. In The Age of Lead, a televised account of the excavation of another body  this one from a 19th-century Arctic expedition  stirs one womans aching memories of the life and death of her dear, inscrutable, sardonic friend. Atwoods wry and rueful tales bridge the gap between your usual reading habits and your new interest in the natural world.Claire Camerons evocative novel The Last Neanderthal also interweaves the contemporary with the primeval. Her page turner is anchored by the story of Dr. Rose Gale, who discovers the bones belonging to a pair of bodies (a Neanderthal and a modern Homo sapiens) in a cavern in France, and whose career was inspired by H.G. Wellss description of Neanderthals from The Outline of History. (Wells also wrote a piece of prehistoric fiction, The Grisly Folk.) The most visceral and moving chapters are those devoted to Girl, a Neanderthal cast out from the hearth of the family. Though Cameron signals the connection between the lives of Girl and Rose early on, the suspense lies in the way she laces together their stories.In 1955, one year after the publication of The Lord of the Flies, its author, William Golding, came out with another novel, this one about early hominids: The Inheritors. Goldings book, like Camerons, tracks Neanderthals at a time when their numbers are dwindling and when they come in contact, albeit uneasily, with humans. However, Goldings strongly sensory work  told primarily from the perspective of Lok, the Everyman  leans more heavily on imagination (including a kind of pictorial telepathy) than on research.Animal MagnetismInnovation and fact blend seamlessly in Barbara Gowdys complex, meditative and deeply sad novel The White Bone, told entirely from the point of view of elephants. The intimately imagined social hierarchy and inner lives of the pachyderms are as layered  with spiritualism, intricate relationships among members of the herd and even poems and song  as any human family epic.Yours truly, Match BookDo you need book recommendations? Write to matchbook@nytimes.com.Check out Match Books earlier recommendations here.
