The Frieze New York art fair has long lured deep-pocketed collectors like Henry Kravis, Eli Broad and Dasha Zhukova with its million-dollar, cutting edge contemporary offerings and top-name galleries in a bespoke white tent. But down the East River, Brooklyn is brimming with fairs of its own touting emerging artists, many with budget prices. Even where costs are higher, looking is free and worth the trip.The Other Art Fair, 1-54 Contemporary African Art Fair, Moniker International Art Fair and the Fridge Art Fair are running through the weekend, and they could be viewed as anti-Frieze events. Tapping into an overlooked market, they predominantly spotlight young talent. Although each fair has the requisite roster of lectures and guided tours, theres also a host of performances. Some of them have craft beers and food trucks. And Brooklyn art fair tickets begin at $15 to $20. Heres a sampling of what you can find.The Other Art FairMay 3-6, Brooklyn Expo Center; theotherartfair.comThe model for The Other Art Fair, or TOAF, differs from that of other events. We offer up artists on their own, rather than through dealers, said Ryan Stanier, the fairs founder, who has expanded from Britain to Sydney, Melbourne and Los Angeles, with a Chicago fair slated for September. The Other Art Fair made its New York debut last year.Staged at the Brooklyn Expo Center in Greenpoint and presented by the Saatchi Art enterprise of Santa Monica, TOAF showcases 130 international artists with prices ranging from $250 to $10,000. Rebecca Wilson, the chief curator of Saatchi Art, and Mary Rozell, global head of the UBS Art Collection, sifted through some 1,000 applications.Its really an effective springboard for talented emerging artists to raise their visibility in the eyes of both seasoned and novice collectors while clinching sales, Ms. Rozell said. Visitors may even get to actually meet the artists.There is an experiential cast to the fair, with local D.J.s and the Brooklyn tattoo artist Scott Campbell, whose clients include Penlope Cruz and Sting. The illustrator Amber Vittoria (whose clients include The New York Times) will sketch portraits for free.Here you can find a Maryland newcomer like Hannah Sarfraz, whose delicate 2017 Blue Feather drawing is $1,500, or her prints, for $150. The New Orleans photographer Dan Tague, whose inkjet prints are in the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art, is here with limited edition photographs, including Keep On Spending In the Free World, capturing crumpled up dollar bills, in an edition of five for $6,000.From Bogot, Colombia, the artist Lorenza Panero is showcasing her 2017 Luminous River, which comprises 29 framed aluminum glass panels lit from beneath. At 3 feet wide and 4 feet long, it can serve as a floor installation, or even be hung, for $5,410.Ral de la Torre, whose work is featured at the Four Seasons Hotel Abu Dhabi and Morgan Stanley offices, is showing his 2016 Serendipity X (10) works on paper, which he both paints and embroiders, for $500. Nadia Atturas beguiling editioned photographs are the same price.1-54 Contemporary African Art FairMay 4-6, at Pioneer Works; 1-54.com/new-yorkI skipped a huge white tent, said Touria El Glaoui, the founder of 1-54 fair. She preferred to home in on Brooklyn as the borough that boasts a kind of charisma, a diverse population and where so many artists have studios. Attendance at the fair jumped to more than 8,000 people in 2016, from approximately 6,000 a year earlier. Last year, Brooklyn Museum and Museum of Modern Art curators  along with Sheena Wagstaff, head of the Metropolitan Museum of Arts modern and contemporary department, stopped by.Held in Pioneer Works, the arts center in Red Hook, the fair is packed with 21 galleries from New York, London, Johannesburg and beyond, exhibiting some 60 artists. Both fledgling and seasoned collectors like Isabel Wilcox, a member of the board of the Drawing Center, shop at the fair.Expect a mix of high-priced works and affordable ones. For those who have yet to take in Yinka Shonibares towering 2018 Wind Sculpture (SG) 1 at the entrance to Central Park, the Chelsea dealer James Cohan is featuring this British-Nigerian artists 2015 digital print Medusa East, a mythical creatures head topped by snakes, for 25,000 pounds.The South African artist Ralph Ziman has parked his reclaimed Casspir armored tank 2016 SPOEK 1, in which he embedded the exterior with brilliant glass beads in distinctive tribal patterns. The tank carries a hefty six-figure price tag, but the artists photographs can be found with the London and Cape Town gallerist Sulger-Buel Lovell, starting at $3,000.The Lower East Side dealer Catinca Tabacaru, who also has a Zimbabwe outpost, is featuring Admire Kamudzengereres mixed media works painted on aging telephone book pages, for $2,000 to $15,000, with several small examples available for $500 each. The artist was featured in the 2017 Venice Biennales Zimbabwe pavilion.Moniker International Art FairMay 3-6, Greenpoint Terminal Warehouse; monikerartfair.comThe London-based Moniker, which is devoted solely to urban culture art  graffiti, spray paintings and sketches  is taking over the Greenpoint Warehouse Terminal. Street culture artistry is a fast accelerating movement, Tina Ziegler, the fairs director, said.When it comes to delivering an immersive experience, Ms. Ziegler ups the ante. She brought on the British street artist INSA to devise a captivating installation. His mixed-media, globular Temporal Infinity is emblazoned with the artists acrylic signature skulls and stilettos in searing lime and hot pink, and measures 15 feet in diameter. Five people can fit in the globe.Whats on view is idiosyncratic, and prices run from $80 to $25,000. The East Hampton-based Roman Fine Art is bringing the Los Angeles aerosol artist Tim Conlons latest work. His 2018 painted model train car WS is tagged at $1,600. Mr. Conlon was featured in the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Arts 2011 exhibition Art in The Streets. His collectors include Beth Rudin DeWoody and Jay Sugarman, the chief executive of iStar Financial.The Washington, D.C., collector Chris McGuinn, a Conlon fan, will be on hand. My mother was on the board of the Andy Warhol Museum and I originally gravitated to Pop Art, Mr. McGuinn, a management consultant, said. But when he first saw Conlons hyper-realist painting of a spray-painted subway car, he snapped it up for his home. Its the essence of street culture and appears as if it actually been welded and then spray painted, he added.Also available with Roman Fine Art is a Lizzie Gill collage for $500. The pioneering French Street artist Brusk, who shows with the Jersey City gallery Jonathan LeVine Projects, veers toward monumental work, and his canvases can go for $25,000. But limited edition prints are priced at $220.Fridge Art FairMay 2-6, Nu Hotel; fridgeartfair.comSix years ago, the Lower East Side artist Eric Ginsburg jump-started this outside-the-box contemporary art fair (its name is a play on Frieze), and his latest edition fills the entire first floor of the Nu Hotel. About 40 artists are represented, and the fair is a tribute to David Bowie. On view will be an installation of 8-feet-high balloons all in the shape of Ziggy Stardust. Expect a rock band performing Bowie hits.Mr. Ginsburg, whose work can be found in the Dorothy and Herbert Vogel collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., is exhibiting his own folk-art style oil paintings of dogs and cats in a bold primary palette, for $500. Peter Stefanides, a New York doctor of rehabilitation medicine, turns out quixotic four-feet-tall vessels made from plaster bandages and wood, which are painted in sharp colors and tagged at $500.And a sweet ending for a fair weekend: There are free Ziggys Stardust Powdered Donuts created specially for the Fridge.
