Twenty years ago, riding a bike through New York City was seen as crazy  a radical act reserved for bike messengers, die-hard commuters and former Talking Heads frontmen.Today, the city is covered in green lanes filled with tourists on Citi Bikes, lawless delivery men on electric bikes and hipsters coasting on Dutch utility bikes or brakeless fixies. But one type of bicycle that is rarely seen is a mountain bike  its knobby tires too cumbersome in Midtown traffic, its handlebars too wide to squeeze between taxi cabs.In Westchester County, however, the mountain bike thrives on the gnarled, rocky trails of Blue Mountain Reservation in Peekskill or Sprain Ridge Park in Yonkers. And these are the landscapes that Thomas Callahan has in mind when welding together his latest creation.Mr. Callahan, 38, is a lifelong bike fanatic and the owner of Horse Cycles, a custom bicycle company based in Williamsburg that he founded in 2007. Known mainly for gorgeous steel-framed urban bikes, Mr. Callahan recently turned his attention to building what he described as the ultimate East Coast trail bike.The trails around here are really technical, so you dont get many smooth, easy climbs, Mr. Callahan said. I want to make something that gives me more stability and strength when climbing, but also will allow me to start riding more challenging, bigger, steeper terrain.To do this, however, Mr. Callahan did not have to reinvent the bike frame. Unlike the big bike companies, which seem to introduce a revolutionary new piece of technology every season, Mr. Callahan is instead taking a decidedly old-school approach.The frame  named the Hell Cat in honor of his pet tabby, Charles  may look like any of the dozens of others sitting in apartments or chained to street signs around the city, but there are subtle differences that Mr. Callahan says make all the difference.After spending years riding dozens of mountain bikes, testing multiple designs and discussing the pros and cons of each with friends and customers, Mr. Callahan said he has figured out an ideal configuration for New Yorks technical terrain.Most mountain bikes are designed with riders out west in mind  lots of cushy suspension, built for long, smooth climbs and fast, rolling descents. These are not the conditions that Mr. Callahan has in mind for the Hell Cat.The biggest difference between the frame of the Hell Cat and other mountain bikes is its extremely long and sloping top tube, which helps even out a riders weight distribution. This helps both prevent the front wheel from rising up in the air on steep, rocky climbs and from pitching a rider forward on equally steep downhills.I wanted to make sure I wasnt going to go right over the bars on a descent, Mr. Callahan said.Along with the top tube, Mr. Callahan also gave the frame a short rear triangle to make it more nimble on the East Coasts tight single-track trails and to aid in the power transfer while pedaling.Instead of trying to compete with top-of-the-line, full suspension bikes from big brands like Cannondale and Trek  these have a giant, shock-absorbing spring or piston built into the frame  the Hell Cat is a throwback to the first generation of mountain bikes. It is whats known as a hardtail  a rigid, high-grade steel frame, with only a front suspension fork.Its an appropriation of an old design, Mr. Callahan said, adding that he drew influence from mountain bikings founders fathers from the late 1970s and early 1980s. I took that design and pushed and tweaked it to make it more capable on todays trails.Mr. Callahan noted that hardtail bikes are ideal for cyclists on the East Coast who dont have to deal with the massive six-foot drops and big terrain that their cohorts out west do.Instead, the root- and rock-covered trails and punchy climbs around New York require a stiffer frame and the ability to run some of the widest mountain-bike tires on the market.You can run those tires at very low pressure so theyll roll over obstacles much easier, he said. They are better and stronger and make the ride more comfortable.Sitting in his Williamsburg workshop earlier this week amid a slew of half-finished bike frames, motorcycles in various states of repair, surfboards and metalworking equipment dating back to the 1940s, Mr. Callahan worked on the details of the Hell Cat. It was almost finished, but it would probably be a while before the bike hits the dirt, and even longer before anyone else gets their hands on a Hell Cat.Along with a packed schedule of other custom rigs, Mr. Callahan has to have the bike custom-painted in his in-house shop and wait for the other custom parts hes ordered to be anodized and shipped over.Mountain biking is not a cheap sport  a top-of-the-line Cannondale can cost more than $7,000  and for those hoping to get a Hell Cat of their own, it will take some money as well as patience. The Hell Cat frame alone costs $2,200, and a fully customized bike, tailored to a riders geometry and with a personalized paint job, takes about eight weeks, start to finish.Its time-consuming, but what you get in the end is a high-quality bike that is custom made for you, Mr. Callahan said. Its a tool for adventure.
