Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.When I returned to work from maternity leave two months ago, I didnt expect to be thrust into a story about a tidal wave of teacher walkouts across the United States.In retrospect, I shouldnt have been surprised. Ive been noticing for years that teachers are angry about all sorts of things: the proliferation of standardized tests and mandated curricula, demands for reform from philanthropists and policymakers who have little experience in public schools, and, of course, stagnant pay. That is certainly the story in Arizona, which has pursued decades of tax cuts and fiscal austerity.On April 10, I landed in Phoenix to cover the teacher protests in the state, in the middle of a heat wave. The next afternoon, I walked into Sunset Ridge Elementary School in Glendale; it was over 90 degrees in early spring, and this native New Yorker had forgotten to pack sunscreen and water bottles. I was exhausted. In less than 24 hours, Id driven 140 miles to visit four schools and two large, outdoor demonstrations.But I was immediately energized when I met Lily Matos DeBlieux, the superintendent of the largely Latino Pendergast Elementary School District. Her hair was dyed fire-engine red in support of the teacher protest movement, which calls itself #RedforEd. Its unusual to see managers support workers who are planning, essentially, to strike, but that was the case in every state Id covered since the nationwide teacher walkout movement began. Dr. DeBlieux told me that because of low budgets shed had to turn to private donors to support a whole host of instructional and social priorities for children.She also mentioned, almost offhandedly, that shed hired over 50 foreign teachers, largely from the Philippines. She couldnt recruit or retain enough Americans with the salaries she was able to offer, around $40,000. I was surprised to hear this, in part because Sunset Ridge Elementary School seemed like a great place to work, with a thriving Spanish-English dual language program and a group of dedicated, passionate colleagues. Care work, like nannying or home health care, has often been done by recent immigrants. But you dont necessarily expect to see this sort of global labor market in the teaching profession. Many of the teachers I meet on the road attended college in their home states and work in, or very near to, the communities where they grew up.Id heard of schools traveling out-of-state to recruit, but not about this: a pipeline of teachers from the Philippines to the American Southwest. I drew a big star in my notebook to remind myself to follow up.My editors  Marc Lacey, Dave Kim and Jia Lynn Yang  urged me to make foreign teacher recruitment the focus of my reporting. I then asked the Pendergast school district to introduce me to one of their Filipino teachers. I connected with Donato Soberano, who became the subject of my piece. Mr. Soberano left his wife and two daughters behind in Manila to teach science in Arizona. His school district desperately needs him, and he would like nothing more than to stay in his job long-term. After all, he earns 10 times more here than he did back home. But he holds a J-1 visa, which requires him to return to the Philippines within five years.Mr. Soberano is just one of thousands of teachers nationwide who hold temporary cultural exchange visas and are being recruited to work in regions with teacher shortages. I found clusters of J-1 teachers in Nevada, Arizona, the Carolinas and several other states. Many go into debt paying large fees  $12,500 in Mr. Soberanos case  to private agencies that place them in their jobs.A big part of my reporting was tracing the money Mr. Soberano spent back to two American, for-profit companies that specialize in connecting foreign teachers to schools. Those businesses say that they are performing a crucial service and that schools are too broke to pay the recruitment and legal costs themselves.It was a subject many sources found difficult to talk about, and the reporting required some patience. The companies that scout foreign teachers are eager to portray themselves as purveyors of a niche foreign exchange experience meant to promote diplomacy, but they also actively market themselves to schools facing long-term teacher shortages. Labor groups are uncomfortable with this practice, but dont want to criticize the foreign teachers, who are sometimes union members. School administrators may feel sorry that foreign teachers pay huge fees to land their jobs  some administrators underestimated the size of those fees  but they feel they have no better option.Some of the costs of our underfunded education system are obvious: At The Times, weve reported on textbooks held together with duct tape and teachers who qualify for federal anti-poverty programs. But through this reporting, Ive come to understand there are some hidden costs, too  and theyre being borne by educators like Mr. Soberano. The debt he took on to come to Arizona was big money, Mr. Soberano told me. Nevertheless, hes happy to be here. He called the United States a dream country and said he was praying for a legal way to bring his family here, and to remain with his students.
