Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. Last week I was in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to check out changes at Bedford Cheese Shop. Theyd reconfigured the space and added new features, including a spacious coffee bar and a selection of smoked fish. I expected to include it in my Front Burner column.Im the gatekeeper for this corner of the Food section. Im open to anything new, but whatever I decide to include should have some story to tell and pass a hands-on test. I taste that uncommon gin or mustard, take some new skillet for a spin on my stove and scope out a recently opened store or counter.For me, Front Burner is a treadmill and an adventure. I select six things to feature every week and as soon as one week is complete, or even before, Im on to the next. The adventure is the discovery of details behind the products, entrepreneurs, traditions and places that I feature. My mandate, as I understand it, is to give readers a small sampling of what I find to be new and interesting in the food world.Thats what took me to Williamsburg and also what sends me all over the city. Its what fills my desk, my home pantry and refrigerator with an insane array of products, some requested but many unsolicited and often rejected. For Mothers Day, I would not consider a bouquet of roses fashioned from beef jerky, and I do not require five (and counting) gadgets for dissecting an avocado. Vegan bacon chips? Please!So what was the deal about Bedford Cheese Shop? Its a place Ive covered several times, especially when the store relocated. I was curious about its new features, and what I learned during my visit confirmed my conviction that the shop was worth another look. Youll read about it next week.My role is both commander in chief and infantry. Frequently, when I check out a store, I do so anonymously, though I often chat with clerks and purchase what catches my eye, hauling it back to my desk. If I decide the place is worth covering, I follow up by phone with an owner or manager. Since I was bringing a photographer to Bedford Cheese Shop, any pretext of anonymity was out the window. I dont think it made a difference, because they did not change anything in the shop to accommodate me.I am reimbursed for anything I purchase as well as travel expenses. I do not pay for unsolicited items. Though I may offer to buy those that are sent by a producer or a market, most of the time they are considered to be free samples. Theres no limit on the value, but its very rare that Im sent something worth more than $100. I usually return kitchen and tableware once they have been photographed. If a publicist wants me to try a new sauce, I make it clear that there is no guarantee that I will feature it.I always aim for a varied assortment, and with the visual aspect of the column in mind, I try not to have more than two straightforward product shots on any given page. A photo of the interior of a shop or of a plate of food makes the column livelier. I keep holidays in mind, and select appropriate items that I would want to own or give or eat. In my scrap of text, I try to convey what makes an item interesting, how it tastes and what to do with it. I describe how a shop looks and why it might be worth a visit.For next week, considering the heat generated by the forthcoming royal wedding, I thought readers might want to buy a bottle of English sparkling wine for toasting or even to know that such a thing exists. I searched for ones sold in the United States, obtained some bottles and tasted them. (I will not include a product that cant yet be bought or a book that hasnt been published.)Next up? Ill be spooning a bowl of Guyanese cow foot soup and seeing how well a new oyster knife performs on a dozen Island Creeks.
