BERLIN  At first glance, the actor Franz Rogowski is an unlikely candidate for movie star. The 32-year-old German is cerebral and quiet in conversation, and he has a scar and a lisp resulting from a cleft lip operation in his childhood. Though he seems more suited to playing a tough guy in the background, Mr. Rogowski has emerged over the past few months as one of Germanys most admired leading men.At this years Berlin Film Festival, known as the Berlinale, Mr. Rogowski had lead roles in two major entries: Transit, by the German director Christian Petzold, which is in theaters in France and Germany, and In the Aisles, an understated love story set in a wholesale supermarket. In the Aisles opens in Germany this month and has been sold for distribution in the United States.Mr. Rogowski also won a European Shooting Star award, given every year to promising young European actors, and last week took home a Lola, the German equivalent of an Oscar, for his performance in In the Aisles. He now seems poised for an international breakthrough.Sitting in a cafe in Berlins Kreuzberg district, dressed in a gray jumpsuit, black baseball cap and scuffed white sneakers, Mr. Rogowski described the unexpected blessings of his childhood scar. I think everywhere we see perfect surfaces, and when something breaks through the surface, it is somehow interesting. Though it doesnt make me a better actor.He added that the American actor Joaquin Phoenix had had the same procedure. I can only recommend people with a cleft lip become actors, he said.Mr. Rogowski also admitted to being a bit uncomfortable with his recent success. When I take the subway and see a headline that I am dominating the Berlinale, I feel bad, he said, then sarcastically joked, Its so clear that I am a sex symbol, I just need to accept it.This cheerfulness is a far cry from his character in In the Aisles, one of the Berlinales best-received titles, in which Mr. Rogowski stars opposite Sandra Hller from Toni Erdmann  another bittersweet German comedy. He portrays Christian, a nearly mute, heavily tattooed employee at a wholesaler in a downtrodden part of the former East Germany.Mr. Rogowski plays the role with fine-tuned blend of machismo and vulnerability. People dont really know you are working so hard, he said of playing largely nonspeaking roles. Its about how you stand, how you listen  its much harder to do a little than to do a lot.He has only a few more lines in Transit, a time-jumbling modern-day adaptation of a novel about World War II, in which he plays a refugee trying to get exit papers to escape a coming invasion. In an email, Mr. Petzold, who also directed Barbara and Phoenix, described Mr. Rogowski as a great actor who is able to balance sadness and confidence, coldness and empathy like a dancer.Anja Dihrberg, a veteran German casting director, helped cast Mr. Rogowski in Terrence Malicks upcoming World War II film Radegund. She said by phone that Mr. Rogowski stood out in Germany for his physical performance, which she believed might be a lucky side effect of his speech impediment: The vast majority of German actors focus on being able to recite large amounts of text, she said, but he is the exception.You can lose yourself in Franzs face and eyes, Ms. Dihrberg added.Mr. Rogowski said he was not allowed to reveal his role in Radegund, which tells the true story of Franz Jgersttter, an Austrian conscientious objector, but Ms. Dihrberg described it as a figure that is required to suffer. She said that Mr. Malick was intent on overcoming scheduling conflicts to secure Mr. Rogowskis participation. We did everything we could to make it possible for him to play that role, because of Mr. Malick, she said. Terrence fought for him.Growing up in the university town of Tbingen, in southern Germany, Mr. Rogowski was bullied for his lisp and performed poorly in school, the result of what he said was an undiagnosed attention disorder. He also clashed with his mother, he said, because of an excessive pot-smoking habit. At 16, he left school and moved in with a friend.A conversation with a social worker led him to consider acting as a career, and after a stint at an acting academy in Stuttgart, he spent a year at a clown school in the mountains of southern Switzerland. There, he learned the skills of a street performer  including juggling and commedia dellarte, an improvised form of Italian theater.Sometimes I went missing for two, three weeks without providing a reason, Mr. Rogowski said. After a year, administrators told him he should continue developing his talent, but to please do so at a different school, he recalled.Mr. Rogowski later moved to Berlin, where he worked as a dancer and street musician, and began acting in student films and small German features, including the single-take thriller Victoria, which went on to become a cult hit. He eventually beat out numerous French actors for the role of Pierre, the scion of an ill-fated real estate family in Michael Hanekes Happy End, playing opposite Isabelle Huppert. One of the films most memorable scenes, a karaoke performance of Sias Chandelier that culminates in a series of unhinged acrobatic moves, was a startling showcase for Mr. Rogowskis physical acting style.Mr. Rogowski described Mr. Haneke as very patient, very tender, then paused and added, That was a bit of a joke. The actor recalled doing a scene on camera while Mr. Haneke watched from a monitor in a tent on set, and from the outside you just hear noises, like uhh or clapping. If Mr. Haneke was unhappy, Mr. Rogowski recalled, the director wouldnt say unpleasant things, but you would notice he is suffering physically. (In a succinct email, Mr. Haneke described Mr. Rogowski as good and praised his mixture of virility and sensitivity.)Mr. Rogowski is currently balancing film roles with theater work at the Munich Kammerspiele, which is known for its experimental productions. When he first began working there three years ago, he struggled to find an affordable apartment, and, in a stunt, he appeared on German television with a T-shirt bearing his phone number, saying he was looking for a place to live. The only guy who reacted to the T-shirt was a guy from Kenya who offered me to sleep in his kitchen, he said. A very nice guy. The theater eventually helped Mr. Rogowski find an apartment.Mr. Rogowski said he was working on improving his English so he could work outside Europe, but he said he had few complaints about his current circumstances. If I look at myself and my personality and upbringing, I think I cant be an actor for all my life, its a ridiculous profession, he said. But at the moment, I love it.
