WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.  An ex-police officer who killed a stranded black motorist argues that he shouldn\'t stand trial because Florida\'s "stand your ground" law allowed him to defend himself when he believed his life was in danger  but a prosecutor asserts that he never identified himself, leaving the motorist to think the officer was a robber.Prosecutors and attorneys for fired Palm Beach Gardens officer Nouman Raja clashed Monday during a hearing over whether his fatal shooting of 31-year-old Corey Jones was justified.Raja could face trial for manslaughter and attempted murder charges for killing Jones, who pulled a gun when they came face-to-face on a dark Interstate 95 off ramp before dawn in October 2015.Prosecutor Brian Fernandes told Judge Samantha Schosberg Feuer and a packed courtroom that Raja, who was working in plain clothes, did not wear his police vest as ordered and is never heard on a recording identifying himself as a police officer. He said that made Jones think he was defending himself from a robber. Jones, who was returning home from a late-night performance by his reggae band, had a concealed weapons permit and his family says he had just bought his gun to protect his drum equipment.Fernandes said Raja also violated police protocol by driving his undercover van the wrong way up the off ramp and by aggressively walking toward Jones instead of taking cover behind his van if he thought his life was in danger."There was no way for Corey Jones to know that person was a law enforcement officer," Fernandes said. He said Raja cannot claim protection under the stand your ground statute because he was the instigator.Defense attorney Richard Lubin said the recording does show Raja said something as he neared Jones, supporting Raja\'s statements to investigators that he identified himself. He said Raja gave Jones several chances to drop his gun."Mr. Jones did not put his hands up," Lubin said, calling the shooting "tragic."The stand your ground law says people can use lethal force if they reasonably believe their life is threatened, but they cannot have created the situation.The courtroom was packed with supporters of both sides. Many Jones supporters wore T-shirts emblazoned with his final recorded words, "hold on, hold on," and diagrams from Jones\' autopsy showing where Raja\'s bullets hit. Several gasped and wept when the audio recording of the shooting was played.Several members of Raja\'s police union sat with his family.Judge Feuer will decide whether Raja, 40, will stand trial starting in July. He is of South Asian descent.Jones, who also worked as a housing inspector, was talking to a tow truck dispatch center, which recorded the call. Raja pulled directly in front of him in a white, unmarked van and got out wearing jeans, a T-shirt, sneakers and a baseball cap. He is never heard identifying himself on the tape, but a defense expert said Raja said something as he approached, causing Jones to reply "huh?"In the recording, Raja, a seven-year police officer who had joined Palm Beach Gardens six months earlier, yells "You good?" as he approaches. Jones says he is. Raja twice replies, "Really?" with Jones replying "yeah" each time.Suddenly, Raja shouts for Jones to put his hands up, using an expletive. Jones replies "Hold on!" and Raja repeats his demand. Raja then fires three shots in less than two seconds. Ten seconds pass before three more shots are heard a second apart, apparently Raja firing as Jones ran down an embankment. Raja told investigators Jones kept pointing his gun at him; prosecutors say Raja saw him throw it down but kept firing, which is why he is charged with attempted murder. Investigators have been unable to determine when the fatal shot was fired.Raja then used his personal cellphone to call 911 with the operator picking up 33 seconds after the last shot was fired. Raja is recorded yelling orders to drop the gun; prosecutors say he was trying to mislead investigators into believing he hadn\'t seen the gun thrown. Jones\' body was found 200 feet (60 meters) from the SUV and 125 feet (38 meters) from his gun, which was unfired.Defense expert Christopher Chapman, a former police officer who is now a City University of New York criminal justice professor, testified Raja acted reasonably because Jones pointed a gun at him."This is a fast-moving situation where he had to respond right then," Chapman said.He said it was "ridiculous" for the prosecution to consider how Raja approached Jones in determining whether the shooting was justified.Prosecutor Adrienne Ellis called Chapman\'s testimony "ludicrous."The hearing is scheduled to conclude Tuesday.
