PRINCETON, N.J.  Two decades ago, Rider College was hailed as a savior in the music world when it acquired neighboring Westminster Choir College, a beloved but struggling institution in downtown Princeton. It was vital, Rider officials said, to sustain a storied history replete with students who had sung on the original Fantasia soundtrack, and worked with Bernstein and Toscanini.Riders latest plan for Westminster has struck a far more discordant note.Facing what it says are daunting fiscal challenges, Rider, now a university, hopes to sell Westminster to a for-profit Chinese company for $40 million. Under the proposal, the buyer, Beijing Kaiwen Education Technology, would maintain the choir colleges programs and staff in Princeton, while seeking to franchise the Westminster name.Its like passing on your child to the next parent and saying they can give them a better future than we can give them, said Gregory G. DellOmo, Riders president. Yes, its sort of a tough, sad decision, but its almost tough love.But some Westminster and Rider professors, armed with fresh financial data, question Kaiwens experience in higher education. Many have also lost confidence in Dr. DellOmo, a former human resources executive in the retail industry, who took office in August 2015.Rider is not in crisis: that is a pure scare tactic to justify what he wants to do, which is get a windfall of money, said Jeffrey R. Halpern, a sociology professor and longtime official with the Rider chapter of the American Association of University Professors. He really epitomizes what wed call the corporatization of American higher education.The existential battle over Rider and Westminster, eight miles apart, comes as many colleges, especially those with only local or regional reputations, confront shrinking demographics and declining government support.Outside Boston, Mount Ida College, a private college founded in 1899, closed in April. In Pennsylvania, the RAND Corporation just urged major changes or even consolidation at state colleges. In northern New Jersey, Drew University, reeling from credit rating downgrades, slashed tuition by 20 percent last fall, in hopes of boosting enrollment.For Westminster and its 439 students, the next few months could be the most pivotal yet.A group of Westminster alumni sued Rider in Federal District Court in Manhattan in June 2017, arguing that a sale would violate the Rider-Westminster merger. The Princeton Theological Seminary contended in state court in February that the sale would break a promise made by the original donor of the land, to which it could lay claim. Meanwhile, another group of alumni, faculty, parents and donors, concerned about the Kaiwen transaction, just established a new nonprofit, The Westminster Foundation, Princeton, N.J., to ensure the continued existence of Westminster.The uncertainty has already chilled interest in Westminster, where annual tuition is $37,650: the incoming class of freshmen and graduate students is expected to be half the normal size of roughly 110, faculty members estimate.Its tough  I know what the college is going through, and there are not a lot of alternatives right now, said former New Jersey Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who served as Drews president from 1990 to 2005, and has been active in efforts to preserve Westminster. This is one of the best schools of its kind  not just in the state, but the country and the world. To lose it would be a tragedy.Founded in 1920 in a Presbyterian church in Dayton, Ohio, Westminster relocated to Ithaca, N.Y., before settling in Princeton in 1932. While it lacks the cachet of New Yorks Juilliard School or Philadelphias Curtis Institute of Music, Westminster has trained many singers affiliated with the Metropolitan Opera, as well as scores of choral directors and music teachers.In the early 1990s, though, the college nearly closed in the face of mounting debt, declining enrollment and deteriorating facilities. Along came Rider, a private college which hoped to expand into the arts.After the 2008 recession, however, Riders enrollment fell by 12 percent, before rebounding slightly in 2016. Now, with 88 percent of its revenue coming from students, the university relies more on tuition than its peers, according to Moodys Investor Service, which revised its outlook for Rider to negative in November, citing the potential impact of the Westminster sale.As part of our financials, and our strategy going forward, we cannot make the kind of investments that Westminster needs, said Dr. DellOmo, who previously served as president of Robert Morris University, outside Pittsburgh.Dr. DellOmo has pushed to incorporate more higher-demand career programs, such as computer science and sports management into Riders offerings. When he revived a proposal to move Westminster to Riders main Lawrenceville, N.J., campus, and sell the 23-acre Princeton parcel, irate faculty, students and alumni said the acoustics and intimate milieu could not be replicated.Rider then approached other colleges  Princeton, Juilliard, Oberlin, and the like  about taking over Westminster, but no offers materialized because the choir school may have been too much of a niche market, Dr. DellOmo said. The only viable offers came from overseas, he said, and Kaiwen, a publicly traded company on the Shenzhen stock exchange, had the most impressive plan.Kaiwen runs two international K-12 schools in Beijing, and has partnered with the Manchester City soccer club and Major League Baseball on sports education. So the company was particularly interested in the Westminster Conservatory of Music, which gives music lessons to children and adults, and Westminster Continuing Education, which primarily runs on-campus summer programs.They understand the idea of branding, Dr. DellOmo said. One thought is that Kaiwen would start new Westminster schools in other places.Under the deal, Rider would still run Westminster for the next academic year, and Kaiwen, operating as a nonprofit locally, would honor Riders student aid packages. Two consultants based in the United States with experience in accreditation and music education are aiding the transition, and PwC, formerly known as PricewaterhouseCoopers, is vetting Kaiwen, Dr. DellOmo added.One of Kaiwens top shareholders is Badachu Holdings, a state-controlled enterprise. One person listed as a director at both Kaiwen and Badachu is Xu Huadong, who held leadership positions within the Chinese Peoples Liberation Army from 1978-2000.Kaiwen declined an interview request, saying it was inappropriate for Kaiwen Education to comment on any pending transactions.But in an interview with Chinese media in March, Xu Guangyu, Kaiwens chairman, a choral singer in college, talked about how Westminster would be an important part of a globalization strategy to offer a broad quality education. Mr. Xu also said that whether it is our music education resources or our sports resources, everything is shared.Chinese companies are increasingly eying education-related mergers following the early, though not sustained, success of Qtone Education Group in 2015. But for Kaiwen, the prospects of profit are not optimistic because of the companys weak revenues.Rider faculty are even more dubious. In a new report, three current and retired professors, relying on public data, flag Kaiwens high debt and negative cash flow, and criticize Dr. DellOmo and Riders board of trustees for a failure to perform due diligence and carry out fiduciary responsibilities.To claim that Rider is likely to fail or collapse is an absurd characterization of the financial situation of Rider University, wrote Howard J. Bunsis, a professor of accounting at Eastern Michigan University, in a 28-page analysis of Riders finances, commissioned by the faculty union.On campus, where Westminsters motto is spectemur agendo, or let us be judged by our deeds, many students said that they were skittish, particularly if future enrollment plummets.But Ingrid Clarfield, a longtime professor of piano, said she was cautiously upbeat. After attending a recent Music Teachers National Association conference, she was heartened by educators with experience in China.I said, give it to me straight, and they felt this would be a very beneficial move for both Westminster and Kaiwen, she said. I really need to believe strongly in this.
