The Mets declared an end to Matt Harveys tenure with the team on Friday after he refused to take a minor league assignment.He will be designated for assignment on Saturday morning, taking him off the major league roster after nearly six seasons in a Mets uniform. The Mets will have seven days to either trade him or release him, if he clears waivers.The end of an era, General Manager Sandy Alderson said. Matt has been a cornerstone of my tenure here.Harvey, 29, embodied the rise of the Mets from a losing franchise to a World Series contender, but he lived up to his nickname, the Dark Knight, in ways both positive and negative. His time with the team was filled almost equally with brilliance, bravado, injuries and hard living. A penchant for the night life accompanied his dominant pitching, but the latter disappeared over the years.The Mets selected Harvey, a right-hander who grew up in Connecticut, seventh over all in the 2010 draft. They called him up in July 2012, and less than a year later, he started the All-Star Game at Citi Field.After Tommy John surgery on his pitching elbow forced him to miss the 2014 season, he returned to lead the Mets to the World Series in 2015. Ever confident, he begged to finish Game 5 of the World Series after throwing eight shutout innings. The Mets kept Harvey in, and the Kansas City Royals tied the score, 2-2, then won it and clinched the championship in the 12th inning.Harvey has not been the same since. His agent, Scott Boras, tangled with Mets management over Harveys workload during the 2015 season, with Boras demanding that his client throw only 180 innings. Including the postseason, Harvey pitched 216 innings that season. The next year, he struggled and ultimately underwent another surgery, to alleviate the symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome.Trying to resuscitate Harveys career, the Mets moved him and his 6.00 earned run average from the starting rotation to the bullpen nearly two weeks ago. It did not work. He continued to struggle, and the Mets did not see him adapting to the new duties.Harvey allowed seven runs over six innings out of the bullpen, including five on Thursday afternoon, his final appearance. His velocity this season was down over three miles per hour from its height of nearly 96 miles per hour in 2015.Theres ways to help guys in the bullpen from the way they attack, the mentality you need to have out of the bullpen, and it became obvious that maybe that wasnt the case with Matt, Mets Manager Mickey Callaway said.So John Ricco, the Mets longtime assistant general manager, the pitching coach Dave Eiland, Callaway and Alderson met with Harvey on Friday afternoon and explained how going to the minors could help, in part by giving him a change of scenery, away from the pressure of the majors. Callaway pointed out that other struggling pitchers, such as the former Toronto ace Roy Halladay, had gone down to the minors and benefited from the move.Alderson said he did not expect Harvey to accept the offer.Because Harvey has been in the major leagues for at least five years, he was allowed to decline the assignment based on collectively bargained rules. Harvey did, and will end up in another teams uniform.Harveys best seasons were in 2013 and 2015, when he posted a 2.50 E.R.A. over 55 starts. His struggles since have raised his career E.R.A. to 3.66 over 639 innings. His career record with the Mets is 34-37.He is owed the remainder of his 2018 salary of $5.6 million, most of which the Mets will have to pay unless they work out a trade. Despite his weak record of late and his checkered off-the-field reputation, Harvey might still draw interest from other teams if he is released. He could sign for a prorated portion of the major league minimum of $545,000.My guess is there are people out there who would take a shot at him, Alderson said.After Harvey showed promise in spring training this year, his arm got stiffer and his stuff went backwards, Eiland said. Harvey pitched like a player who thought he still had a dominant fastball-slider combination, which, in reality, he did not.When youre trying to win major league baseball games, its hard to have a guy on your staff rehabbing, Eiland said. Its not fair to him. Its not fair to the team.Boras said in a text message that being in the bullpen made it tough for Harvey to work on all of his pitches. The thoracic outlet syndrome affected Harveys feel for pitching and his command, Boras said, but he added that Harvey was healthy and had enough velocity to become a starter again.We have a lot of clay to work with to build the starter sculpture, Boras said.Asked if the 2015 workload had contributed to Harveys thoracic outlet syndrome and his athletic decline, Boras and Alderson both said there was no way they could tell.As to the medical reasons, that is an opinion only doctors can address, Boras said.In the off-season, as the Mets fielded potential trade offers for Harvey, Callaway and Eiland vouched for him, believing they could help him as he entered his final season before free agency.We feel like we failed Matt Harvey, Callaway said on Friday. Our job is to help the player, and its not a good feeling when you cant.Mets infielder Jose Reyes added: This might be the best for Matt, ending up in a new organization. A fresh start.When Alderson addressed reporters on Friday afternoon, he struck a solemn tone. He said the decision to part ways with Harvey had been a long time coming. The Mets had their run-ins with Harvey, even suspending him without pay last season for failing to show up to a game after a night of partying. Earlier in the week, Alderson addressed a report about Harveys partying in Los Angeles after the Mets landed in San Diego last week.Alderson said he would miss Harvey and found him to be an appealing, likable and vulnerable individual, in spite of issues all of us face from time to time. He added, He was appreciated for what he brought to the New York Mets.
