THURSDAY PUZZLE  Emily Carroll returns with a fun Thursday puzzle that requires some maneuvering, but if I can get it, you can get it. Thats a hint, if youve been reading Wordplay for a while. But Im not going to spill the beans just yet.Tricky Clues15A: Were not thinking of cellphone carriers here. The clue Cellular carrier? is a hint to the genetic carrier RNA.31A: Tos partner is what we call a partner clue. You are looking for another word that is often partnered with the word in the clue, usually separated by the word and. The answer here would be To and FRO. Need more practice recognizing these tricky clues? Try solving the Mini in the Partner Clue section of our How to Solve guide.35A: Piece of cake? could mean something is easy, but that itself would be too easy for a Thursday. Today, it refers to a TIER on a cake.53A: Have we really gone 30 years without SMAUG, the dragon in The Hobbit, as an entry? Come on, constructors. That is such a fun entry.62: Wordplay alert! Its supposed to rain cats and dogs, not rein cats and dogs. However, if you are reining them, you are probably putting LEASHES on them.5D: Ha! You didnt get me this time. I inevitably put in ALIA as Listed others when I see it in a crossword. Now I know that ALIA refers to a list of things, whereas ALII refers to a list of other people.21D: I dont know why, but I got a kick out of the crossing of DIRT CHEAP and the 38A revealer COMPACT CARS.Todays ThemeIf you, like me, are fairly blind to rebus themes, feel free to use my patented method for sussing them out:Fill in as many gimmes as you possibly can. Take most of them out, because they are wrong. Commence cursing at the puzzle (no really, it helps, and the louder the better), because you have already spent far too much time on it with very little filled in. Unwrap a piece of chocolate and place it in your mouth. Youre digging in for the long haul here.Remind yourself that when you find yourself stuck and cursing loudly at the grid, its usually for a reason: There are rebuses in the puzzle. Begin your search for a revealer for confirmation. Locate the revealer for today, which says Easy-to-park vehicles  or what can be found four times in this puzzle. Nod sagely to yourself as if you really understand that, as a vaguely familiar coating of flop sweat emerges from your pores. Have another piece of chocolate.Return to the spots where you had the most difficulty and stare intensely at them. I mean, really let the puzzle have it with those laser beam eyes. You have most of 13D, for example, and you are fairly sure that the treehouse in the clue needs a ROPE LADDER, but theres not enough room. If this affects you the same way it does me, put away the chocolates and pour yourself a nice beverage  seriously, whatever floats your boat.Fill in OAR at 11A and inhale deeply as the trick to Ms. Carrolls puzzle hits you: You now have R ___ LADDER, with one measly square left. Thats where the OPEL goes to make the entry ROPE LADDER complete. The realization that OPEL is also a car make hits you in the back of the head, just above the occipital bone. Dont forget to exhale.By now you should be on your second drink, or at least halfway through your chocolate reserves. This is because you have realized how much smarter Ms. Carroll is than you; she has hidden four car makes in her grid as rebus entries that work both in the Across and Down entries. Whats more, she has hidden the revealer COMPACT CARS in the center of the grid just to play with you, because these car makes have been squeezed or compacted into one square each.Now do that three more times, filling in the nontheme stuff as you go.And that, my friends, is how you solve a rebus puzzle.Constructor NotesI love rebus puzzles. Years ago, when I was more of a casual crossword solver, I remember doing this alien abduction themed puzzle where several squares had ET in the shape of a flying saucer and then there was a bonus COW rebus square underneath it. It completely blew my mind. I think about that puzzle a lot when Im hitting a writers block and want to feel bad about how much more creative and ambitious other constructors can be.So Ive been trying to come up with a good rebus theme for a while. I was pleasantly surprised to find that there werent any car rebuses in the XWord Info database because it seemed like every thing in a box idea that came to me had already been done before. Initially I was trying to do something with boxcars as the revealer but I found that the 11-letter compact cars made for a better grid layout, plus I think it is more fun.The Tipping PointAlmost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
