Two brothers who were towering figures in the world of taekwondo  one an Olympian gold medalist, the other his longtime coach  were accused of sexually assaulting female athletes, including minors, for years in a lawsuit filed in federal court on Friday.The lawsuit also accused the United States Olympic Committee and the national sports organization U.S.A. Taekwondo of turning a blind eye to the abuse and allowing coaches and athletes who had shown a pattern of predatory behavior to take international trips with young women and girls.The accusations are the latest in a series of charges  similar to ones that have upended U.S.A. Swimming and U.S.A. Gymnastics  alleging that officials at sports organizations affiliated with the Olympics ignored reports of abuse and sexual misconduct.[Read about the case of Larry Nassar, the sports doctor accused of sexually abusing more than 160 young women.]The lawsuit, which names five John Does among the defendants, said the allegations took place over two decades and included sexual abuse, exploitation and trafficking of Olympic athletes by the officials, coaches, and mentors who were entrusted to protect them.The suit was intended to bring institutional change so that athletes safety takes precedence over medals and money, said Jonathan Little, one of the lawyers representing the plaintiffs.We have got to stop thinking of the U.S.O.C. as a bystander. They were active participants, he said.The suit also named Steven Lopez, 39, a decorated athlete and Olympic gold medalist, and his brother Jean Lopez, 44, a prominent coach, as defendants and laid out the sexual abuse and misconduct claims against them in detail.U.S.A. Taekwondo launched an investigation into the claims in 2015, and the brothers last year denied allegations of sexual abuse. Mr. Little said he was not aware of the brothers having been charged with any crimes. On Sunday, their lawyer declined to comment on the suit.The Lopez family is well-known in taekwondo circles. Steven Lopez is a five-time Olympian and three-time medalist. His siblings Mark and Diana are also Olympians, and Jean Lopez has coached all three of them.Along with dozens of Jane Does, four women are named as plaintiffs in the lawsuit. One of them, Heidi Gilbert, 36, said Jean Lopez became her coach in 2002.My Olympic dream was so strong, she said on Saturday. I really wanted to go to the Olympics. She trained with Jean Lopez at the Pan American Taekwondo Championships in Ecuador, where she won a gold medal.Shortly after that victory, she said, she was in a hotel room with his sister. Then he arrived, and his sister left.I thought we were going to talk about my training and furthering my Olympic dreams, and he throws me on the bed, she said.The suit said he rubbed himself against her until he ejaculated in his pants. I just remember being like, Wait, no, that didnt just happen, she said.Ms. Gilbert said Jean Lopez stayed in contact and seemed to be invested in her success in taekwondo, so she eventually moved to Texas to train with him and other elite athletes. But she described the environment as dysfunctional and almost cultish, and during another trip abroad  to Germany in 2003  she said Jean Lopez gave her a drugged drink and sexually assaulted her in a hotel.Ms. Gilbert reported her complaints in 2015. The lawsuit said she had not alerted officials at the time because she feared she would be ignored. She left Texas in late 2003.The U.S.O.C., which oversees Olympic and Paralympic sports in the United States, last year opened the U.S. Center for SafeSport to help national sports organizations prevent abuse and harassment.Asked about the lawsuit, Patrick Sandusky, a spokesman for the U.S.O.C., said in a statement that the organization is deeply focused on supporting, protecting and empowering the athletes we serve.The launch of the U.S. Center for SafeSport, along with a number of additional significant actions we are taking, will ensure that our athletes are better protected from these heinous acts, he added.Another plaintiff in the lawsuit was 15 when she was sexually abused by Jean Lopez and raped by another adult athlete, court papers said. It added that about five years later, she was beaten and raped by Steven Lopez, with whom she was in a sexual relationship.The competitor filed written complaints to U.S.O.C. officials in 2006 accusing Jean and Steven Lopez of abuse, but she was discredited while the brothers maintained their positions and influence, the suit said.Her case was picked up by SafeSport in 2017, which found her claims and those of Ms. Gilbert and others to be credible. Last month, Jean Lopez was banned from Olympic coaching after SafeSport found him guilty of sexual misconduct, USA Today reported. Steven Lopez was listed as being under a restriction, according to the SafeSport website, but what exactly that meant was unclear.U.S.A. Taekwondo said in a statement on Sunday that it was reviewing the lawsuit. As this is an in-process legal matter it would be inappropriate for us to comment further at this time, it said.Ms. Gilbert, who runs her own martial arts school with her husband in California, said the investigations have dragged on. She said she spent about a year detailing her experiences with a lawyer hired by U.S.A. Taekwondo and then had to do it all over again for SafeSport.Its just about getting our story out there and having change, she said. Thats what needs to happen. They cant keep doing this kind of stuff to people.
