(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Israels strong hand, President Trumps signature phrase and Swedens shocking admission. Heres the latest: In Israel, a new law giving the prime minister and defense minister the authority to go to war without cabinet approval has strengthened the hand of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, above, in trying to foil Irans strategic ambitions.So has the Trump administrations embrace of his assertions that Iran entered the 2015 nuclear deal under false pretenses. They may persuade President Trump to reimpose sanctions on Tehran, a move vociferously opposed by Washingtons European allies.Well see what happens is Mr. Trumps go-to line on issues ranging from Iran to trade clashes with Europe. But those who study his speech patterns are starting to wonder: What happens when we finally see what happens?_____ We will never forgive ETA.In Spain, the Basque separatist group ETA announced that it is disbanding after nearly six decades of violent resistance, which killed more than 800 people there.Its ranks decimated by arrests and its popularity minimal in the Basque region along Spains north coast, the organizations announcement underlined Madrids victory even as it confronts a rising separatist movement in Catalonia.But the Spanish government has said ETA would not win any concessions in return for dissolving itself, and few appear willing to absolve the group of its history of fruitless bloodshed.Separately, protesters in Armenia, above, frustrated by lawmakers refusal to elect the opposition leader as prime minister, closed major squares, roads and schools across the country._____ Cambridge Analytica will file for bankruptcy and cease most operations. The embattled political consulting firm used Facebook data to profile and target voters while advising the Trump and pro-Brexit campaigns in 2016. Above, the firms headquarters in London.But its executives and investors have already moved to create a new British firm, Emerdata, raising concerns that it will work to influence future elections under new auspices.Meanwhile, we spoke to the creator of a hilarious (and fictional) Instagram drama starring 4-year-old Prince George of Britain as a jealous tyrant with a royal hatred for Megan Markle (and anyone else who upstages him)._____ Mohamed Salah is European soccers breakout star this season, scoring 43 goals in 48 games for Liverpool F.C.His Muslim faith  and his unabashed public displays of it  has also made him a figure of considerable significance. At a time of rising Islamophobia in Britain, Mr. Salah, above, is not just accepted, but adored. (He is already a star in his native Egypt.)He is someone who embodies Islams values and wears his faith on his sleeve, said an official at the Muslim Council of Britain. He is not the solution to Islamophobia, but he can play a major role._____ My whole life has been a lie.The Swedish government made a shocking admission on Twitter: Swedish meatballs are really Turkish (based on a recipe brought back by an 18th century Swedish king).Rather than start a culinary war, the confession raised many burning questions, among them: What does it mean for Ikea? (Fun fact: Two million meatballs are consumed in its cafeterias around the world each day.)Meanwhile, a sexual harassment scandal embroiling the Swedish institution that awards the Nobel Prize in Literature is leaving many to wonder: Will there even be a prize this year?_____Business Goldman Sachs is setting up the first Bitcoin trading operation at a Wall Street bank, bucking the risks of doing business with the scandal-tainted virtual currency. Above, the banks headquarters in New York. Gibson, the maker of electric guitars cherished by Elvis, Keith Richards and others, filed for bankruptcy. A top U.S. delegation heads to China this week armed with tough talk about Beijings trade practices, but with little consensus about what concessions the U.S. should demand. Women are paid less than men, and a common interview question about prior salary fuels that pay gap. Some American cities and states are banning the question.  Heres a snapshot of global markets.In the News Ukraine, deeply dependent on the Trump administration for financial and military aid, froze its cooperation with the special counsel investigation into possible collusion between Russia and Paul Manafort, above center, President Trumps former campaign chairman. [The New York Times] In Hungary, a panel of judges condemned the government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban for interfering with the judiciarys autonomy, as the European Union threatened to cut off funding to countries that fail to uphold the rule of law. [The New York Times] A major Czech brewerys mockery of the #MeToo movement has prompted praise, criticism and soul-searching in the former communist republic. [The New York Times] In Libya, gunmen stormed the electoral commission in Tripoli, killing at least six people. The Islamic State claimed responsibility. [The New York Times] A Maltese lawmaker accused a police sergeant of tipping off suspects in the murder of a prominent investigative journalist to their impending arrests, reigniting concerns about the involvement of corrupt officials in her killing. [BBC] In Germany, a Togolese migrant disappeared after 150 asylum seekers attacked police officers to prevent his deportation. [Deutsche Welle]  A humpback whale baby boom: Pregnancy rates in oceans near Antarctica are high, according to a study that shows the species is rebounding. [The New York Times]Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Flavorful salmon in 20 minutes. Traveling the United States is a great way to learn about civil rights. How to handle an old boss who wont let go.Noteworthy A gazillion objects were introduced at last months design fair in Milan, above. Here are a dozen or so that stood out. In Bulgarias capital, Sofia, underground stores in former basement bunkers are evolving with the times, transforming into modern shops, artist studios and speakeasies. A case of ecological suicide (and its not us). Scientists found a bacteria that essentially pollutes itself to death  gorging on glucose until its own acidic waste kills off the entire population.Back StoryThe Anne Frank House in Amsterdam opened as a museum 58 years ago today.And while more than 1.2 million visitors now flock to the museum every year, back in the 1950s the canal house was on the verge of being demolished.The institution was saved from demolition by the Anne Frank Foundation, founded in 1957 to preserve the place where Anne Frank wrote her diary.Together with her parents, sister and four others, Anne lived in the annex of the canal house from July 1942 until August 1944, when they were arrested during a Nazi raid. (Its still unclear who betrayed the family to the Nazis, but an F.B.I. agent reopened the case in 2017.)The museum is currently renovating to prepare for a new generation of visitors. The Anne Frank House is one of multiple institutions that hope to educate younger people about the Holocaust and anti-Semitism.The museum faces a practical challenge: The tiny, cramped attic can accommodate only so many people at once.Otto Frank  Annes father and the only member of the family to survive the Holocaust  attended the opening in 1960, saying he hoped that the museum would be a place where Annes ideals will find their realization.Claire Moses wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
