FRIDAY PUZZLE  Sometimes there are trade-offs to be made in crossword construction. If a constructor wants to stack long entries, he or she needs to accept that not all of the short crossings will be prize winners. An abundance of black squares in an unusual design will close off a grid that could have been wide open and had more of those long, exciting entries we like to see on the weekend. These things do not necessarily make for a bad puzzle, mind you, but they are some of the things constructors keep in mind as they create our entertainment for us.My first impression when I looked at Michael Hawkinss grid was: Huh. This doesnt really look like a Friday grid to me. The black square pattern was not the typical stair step one, and it felt as if parts of his grid were closed off for reasons I couldnt quite fathom. Im not judging by any means; when I constructed crossword puzzles, black square placement was one of my weaknesses. Well be discussing that more on May 11, when the grid design article in the How to Make a Crossword Puzzle series comes out.On the other hand, Mr. Hawkins has some very nice long entries in his puzzle. He also has five lovely debuts, including the au courant HACKTIVISM. There is some tricky cluing, which adds to the challenge and entertainment.So where does that land us? To figure this out, we bring out something readers have not seen in a while: the Scales of Cruciverbal Justice. These special and completely professionally rendered scales are used to determine whether weve had a good time solving the puzzle. One note: Its an art, not a science, my friends. Also, the bird moves around a lot, so take all this with a grain of salt and decide for yourself.The Pro Side of the Scale Mr. Hawkins is well within the number of words (72) that we would expect to see in a Friday puzzle. Its not a record breaker for fewest number of words, but there arent too many, either. His 10-letter stacks at the top and bottom are very interesting. I especially liked HACKTIVISM, STAYCATION (pretty much my typical vacation) and LETS DO THIS. Some of the long Downs are really good: KRYPTON, MONEY TALKS, CARAMEL CORN, SEA SALT. I also liked OPEN WIDE and TAKES OFF. There is a neat and Scrabbly northeast, with XYLEM crossing A.F.C. WEST. There was a lot of effort put into the cluing, and the wordplay is at a satisfying level.The Con Side of the Scale Unusual and closed-off grid design. Grid design leads to interruptions in the flow of solving and shorter entries. A combination of the grid design and the stacks leads to some gluey fill (AMT, TECS, PSY, REF, CSI). Other than HACKTIVISM, there is nothing really cutting edge here, although the Scales acknowledge that this might not be a con to everyone.So I wound up having a pretty good time, all told. Mr. Hawkinss puzzle felt unusual while I solved it, mostly because of the grid design, but I think it was worth my time for the Friday mental tug-of-war alone. Add to that the number and quality of lively entries compared with the relatively low amount of gluey fill, and I can see why the editors accepted Mr. Hawkinss puzzle.Tricky Clues17A: A STAYCATION can be one of the most relaxing kinds of vacations because you 1) escape the horrors of air travel, and 2) dont have to unpack and do dirty vacation laundry when you get home. Oh, and the clue, Whats not going anywhere? is pretty nifty.27A: I had KENO before RENO for Apt rhyme for casino.31A: Some good misdirection here: I originally thought that Stunners had to do with good-looking people, but today they have to do with TASERS.37A: Hi, kids! You might not remember the actor Frank Nelson, but you know his voice. The clue May I help you? for the entry YES reminded me of his trademark Yeeesss? which was eventually given homage, as most things are, by The Simpsons:38A: Ooh, this was tricky. Gave secondhand? suggests giving someone something used, because the word secondhand is one word. If you separate it into two words, Gave second hand? becomes much more apparent  the answer is RE-DEALT.47A: One of the Greats? could be an admired person, but that question mark and the capital G in Greats tell us that were not thinking of Alexander the Great. Today, were thinking of one of the great lakes, and the answer is ERIE.4D: Very cool clue. DC area? is not the area surrounding Washington, D.C. Its an area mentioned in DC Comics, which includes the Superman series. The answer is the planet KRYPTON, Supermans home planet.42D: I had to think about this clue before I got it. Gray area? could be something that falls between extremes, neither black nor white. Given the question mark, however, I believe this hints at the area that would include the study of the gray matter, or the brain: ANATOMY. UPDATE: Thanks to the alert Wordplayers who mentioned the classic textbook Grays Anatomy, which I was not aware of until this morning. Today I learned something new.Constructor NotesTodays crossword is my first solo themeless one after collaborating with John Guzzetta on my first three themeless puzzles.Because we received some editorial pushback on previous portmanteaus, I worried a bit about stacking HACKTIVISM and STAYCATION in such proximity. Will liked both, so perhaps these entries are regarded as more common.Many of my favorite clues survived the edit, including D.C. area? for KRYPTON and What has a lot in store for you? for ONE STOP SHOP. Long Division? for A.F.C. WEST did not make the cut however, likely because Howie has been too long out of the game.The Tipping PointAlmost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
