Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)When Gov. Jerry Brown and Attorney General Xavier Becerra announced this week that California would lead 16 other states in suing the Trump administration over federal efforts to roll back this states fuel emission standards, it was the 32nd time that California sued Washington. One would think that for Sacramento, it is all Trump all the time.But Mr. Becerra, who was appointed to the post by Mr. Brown after Kamala Harris was elected to the United States Senate, wants you to know that is not the case. In a conversation with New York Times reporters in Los Angeles the other day, Mr. Becerra said that, in fact, litigation directed at the Trump administration accounted for only a small portion of his legal energies.Its a fraction, he told The Times. Nowhere near what you think. Ive got 1,200 attorneys. My units  my sections that do non-Trump activity  outnumber, vastly, the units that do affirmative actions against the federal government.Then again, he said, you have weeks like this one.About half of the 32 suits filed by California against the administration are in the environmental space, as Mr. Becerra put it, and many of them were aimed directly at Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The rest dealt with immigration, consumer affairs and health care.Mr. Becerra acknowledged that some of his legal actions  particularly on immigration  could face dissent here in his home state. A number of California communities have joined the administration in filing suit against so-called sanctuary city laws, which are intended to limit the cooperation of local governments with federal immigration officials.People know where Im going to go, Mr. Becerra said. I try to be very open with them about where we are going. And this is California.Even as he ticked off everything else his office was doing, Mr. Becerra said he was not surprised that the world thought that every filing that came out of Sacramento had the word Trump after the word vs.Theres a whole bunch that we are doing: Its just that like everything else in the world, Donald Trump sucks up all the oxygen, he said. So everybody thinks California is just fixated on Donald Trump.California Online(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) Gov. Jerry Brown pushed for greater cooperation with China in his keynote address at the annual California-China Business Summit in Beverly Hills on Thursday. Globalization is here. We are not getting rid of it. And a trade war is stupid, he said. [Associated Press] The capture of the Golden State Killer wasnt the first time investigators used a genealogy site to solve a grisly crime. The Contra Costa County detective who cracked the case used a technique similar to one that helped solve a series of murders in New Hampshire. [The New York Times] And detectives at the Vallejo Police Department, inspired by the successful use of DNA technology, are re-examining evidence from the infamous Zodiac Killer case in the 1960s. [San Francisco Chronicle] The California Republican Party convention begins Friday in San Diego. With only 25 percent of the states voters registered as Republicans, the party must tackle several key tasks at its gathering. [San Francisco Chronicle] The city of Los Angeles sued nine drug companies that handle prescription painkillers, alleging that they worsened the countrys opioid crisis with unethical marketing practices and by violating anti-racketeering laws. [The Los Angeles Times] Marijuana companies seeking more favorable legislation are flooding the states coffers; the industry has donated more than $600,000 to California political campaigns since 2016. [CALmatters] Tuolumne County is the third  and the first in Northern California  to oppose the states so-called sanctuary laws against federal immigration policies. [Capital Public Radio] About 100 people have been sickened in California after eating raw oysters from Canada. State health officials have confirmed a norovirus outbreak. [CNN] Boring bonehead questions are not cool, Elon Musk told analysts in a contentious conference call on Wednesday about Teslas earnings. The electric-car makers stocks fell after Mr. Musks remarks. [The New York Times] Eric Reid, the San Francisco 49ers safety who knelt during the national anthem at games, has filed a grievance against the N.F.L., saying owners have colluded to keep him out of a job because of his protests. [The New York Times] A ruling by the State Supreme Court on Tuesday could affect minor-league baseball players seeking a new wage structure and millions of dollars in back pay. [The New York Times] Poor residents in Fresno spend 73 percent of their income on rent, a new housing report found. The county needs more than 41,000 affordable rental homes to meet demand. [The Fresno Bee] The Bay Area, meanwhile, leads the state as the center of the housing crisis. A new study examines the dilemma faced by residents of the nations economic engine, which provides opportunity while simultaneously shutting out low- and middle-income workers. [The Mercury News] The Los Angeles City Council unanimously backed new regulations on Airbnb, which would bar Angelenos from renting out accommodations that are not their primary residence. [The Los Angeles Times] Here are five tips for a luxurious trip to Los Angeles that wont break the bank. [The New York Times]And Finally ...If youre planning to be up early on Saturday, you might catch a glimpse of NASAs first planetary launch from California. The Mars InSight mission is scheduled to take off from Vandenberg Air Force Base at 4:05 a.m. Pacific time and will be visible to about 10 million Californians from Santa Maria to San Diego, our science reporter Ken Chang says.Explore the mission in augmented reality here. And on Saturday, check the InSight website to make sure its still on schedule, then go outside and look at the western sky.The spacecraft is headed to one of the most boring places on the red planet, but that is exactly what scientists want. The lander carries a probe that will burrow 16 feet into the ground to examine the planets deep interior.InSight is expected to reach Mars on Nov. 26 at about noon. Sign up here to get a reminder of the landing on your calendar.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
