SUNDAY PUZZLE  The title of Brendan Emmett Quigleys puzzle is a phrase coined by Ernie Banks of the Chicago Cubs, referring to a baseball doubleheader, two games played in succession. Mr. Banks apparently first said this, with genuine enthusiasm, on a 105-degree day during one of those summers when the Cubs were last in the league (hard to imagine these days, but the Cubs werent always contenders).Tricky CluesThere were a ton of small words and abbreviations today, as is often the case when a constructor uses a lot of long theme entries. Some tough or cute clues led to ILO, STRO (for a player on the Houston Astros), TAI, IRS, MOI, ART, GUS and ROO, among others.19A: I was surprised to learn that this was a debut; advertising ephemera is a whole collectible category and companies have been offering prizes and gifts in exchange for a BOXTOP, as a proof of purchase and loyalty, for a long time. In 1851, a soap manufacturer publicized his product by wrapping bars of soap for the first time  they had been nakedly stacked on shelves or piled in barrels. If a buyer sent in enough wrappers they would get a floral lithograph. This proved to be such a gangbusters concept that the whole concept of cereal boxes and other packaging took inspiration, and boxtops could be traded for books, sports gear and even land in the Yukon.22A: Clever pun (Out of date?), poignant entry  LONELY. There have been several different clues to derive this emotion; my favorite is probably Sehnsucht, one of those German terms that doesnt quite translate but gives our idea of a feeling a little more depth. Hey, you can be lonely on a date, you know.96A: The Impressive hole here was referring to a golf game: not a chasm or a gully, but an EAGLE. You get an eagle for going two under par, an eagle being a majestic birdie. You get a birdie for going one under par which is just a little impressive. Even better shots are called albatrosses, because really what is more awesome than one of those. Honestly, I wouldnt believe someone who told me half of these things without documentation.115A: I found a couple of examples of this angry cry, FIE FIE, in Shakespeares oeuvre, in The Taming of the Shrew, Troilus and Cressida and A Midsummer Nights Dream. I also found this widget where you can translate modern lines back into Shakespearean speech.122A: The bit of nonsense referred to here, A TASKET, refers to a song conjured up from an old nursery rhyme that launched Ella Fitzgeralds singing career. This had last been clued in the puzzle in 1960, but tiskets and taskets are tacitly in the scat basket, Ellas specialty of improvising over jazz music, and an entry that we see in the grid all the time.3D: Sometimes there are a lot of delicious food clues in a puzzle, sometimes one is just watching what one eats and painfully aware of the triggers, as they are called these days. This Pizzeria order is for EXTRA CHEESE.20D: This one took me by surprise, and nearly crossed MACHU Picchu; Id never known that Paddington Bear hailed from PERU. If you are an arctophile or just a lover of bears in general, Stephen Fry has gone to Peru to rescue spectacled bears, written about it and done a show.35D. The Dragon constellation, DRACO looks like a giant snake thats just slithered between the mama bear and her baby in the northern sky. This is usually clued as a Harry Potter villain these days.71D: Mr. Quigley, it can be argued that BAGELS are an appropriate and vital component of any daily meal. Although its easy to roll out of bed for one. I know people love to argue the qualities of a good bagel, but having made them from scratch a few times (including once with goggles, gloves and lye), I argue that even a mediocre bagel is worth more than one is usually charged. A lot of work goes into bagels!95D: Dont feel bad for trying to work around La Paz in this spot; Bolivia really does have two capitals, that and SUCRE. This practice is not unheard-of, we did that once.114D Dont feel bad for trying to work around BLTs (bacon, lettuce and tomato, for long) in this spot. One of my estimable colleagues pointed out that mayo was uncapitalized, so how could we deduce that it referred to the Spanish word for May? Turns out that none of the months or days of the week take a capital, so in Spanish, ANOS always come with mayo.Todays ThemeMr. Quigley has incorporated 14 board games into his puzzle today, paired into unexpected and cute juxtapositions. If youre a game nut youll probably get them all  I am not, and I was at sea on a third of these, but figured out the answers using crosses and logic.The cryptic theme clues, in italics, are all acrosses at 23A, 30A, 50A, 67A, 85A, 101A and 117A. I didnt solve them in any order and the theme, though simple, revealed slowly, which made it satisfying. As an example, lets look at 101A, which has a particularly whimsical clue and solves to a couple of board game chestnuts.Link a quartet of supermarket employees? breaks into two parts pretty cleanly. First we have link a quartet  a pretty straight definition of CONNECT FOUR, a two-player game from the 70s thats a vertical four-step version of tic-tac-toe. Then we have supermarket employees, or CHECKERS. Nothing to it, really.If you can successfully separate the two pieces for each clue and if at least one of the games is on your mental shelf, youll do all right here. Many of the classics are included, although Monopoly and chess are nowhere to be found. I honestly did not know the first or second part of 30A, or the second part of 50A, but these and the rest that didnt come to mind all worked themselves out. Every other game you need to know is on this list somewhere, if you still need a hand, except for two that, although they do not go together in this puzzle, sound like ingredients in a Freudian recipe: TABOO and MEMORY.Like so many other things that form generational touchstones, I thought that the board games that I played as a child would still be the gold standard today. It was interesting to find a huge array of new games to try  this is a top 50 list that consists of titles that I truly have never heard of, of all types. Although, as Mr. Quigley notes, the classics are still classics.Constructor NotesMy daughter Tabithas getting into board games. Sorry! and Monopoly are her favorites.The Sunday SherpaPlease dont just take your play money and leave in a huff  take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.What did you think?
