Jason Witten ended his N.F.L. playing career after more games as a Dallas Cowboy than any other player. He will be joining Monday Night Football as an analyst.At a news conference on Thursday afternoon attended by many teammates, an emotional Witten said: I can only hope that the men and women in these hallways will say I was a decent man, tried to do things the right way and was dependable.I was never the most talented, never the flashiest, he said. I relied on grit.Of his decision to retire he said, Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.A third-round pick out of Tennessee, Witten, 35, was an ironman at tight end, playing 15 games in his rookie season and 16 every season thereafter. He had 11 Pro Bowl selections, including last season. He caught 1,152 passes for more than 12,000 yards, both Cowboys records. He ranks fourth in the N.F.L. in catches behind Jerry Rice, Tony Gonzalez and Larry Fitzgerald.He was also known as a strong run blocker. Cowboys Coach Jason Garrett once called him the most dedicated footballer Ive ever been around.Of the many great plays he made over the years for the Cowboys, one of the most remembered came in 2007 when his helmet was knocked off after a reception against the Philadelphia Eagles and he ran another 30 yards without it.But Witten played in an era when the Cowboys had more playoff disappointments than successes. His career playoff record is 2-6, and he never got to a conference championship game.Though Witten had five touchdowns last season, his receptions (63) and his yardage (560) were both the lowest since his rookie season.It has been a time of change in Dallas. Tony Romo, the Cowboys quarterback from 2006 to 2015 and a close friend of Wittens, retired a year ago and also headed to the broadcast booth. The team released wide receiver Dez Bryant after eight years, and he has not found a new team yet.That means the Cowboys have lost their top two receivers in terms of catches last season. Still on the team are Terrance Williams and Cole Beasley. The Cowboys also signed Allen Hurns from the Jacksonville Jaguars in free agency last month.The Cowboys did draft a tight end last month, Dalton Schultz of Stanford, in the fourth round, as well as two wide receivers.
