BUSINESS DAYBecause of an editing error, an article on Monday about a merger plan announced by Sprint and T-Mobile omitted mention of a previous merger effort by the two firms. In addition to a deal that was not completed in 2014, the two companies negotiated over a potential merger last year but failed to agree on terms. The omission was repeated in the articles headline.SPORTSBecause of an editing error, an article on Sunday about a new soccer stadium that will host Los Angeles F.C. misstated the color of the stadiums seats. They are gray, not black.A picture caption with an article on Saturday about the outcomes of two games in the first round of the N.B.A. playoffs misidentified a Raptors player. He is DeMar DeRozan, not Kyle Lowry.ARTS & LEISUREAn article on Sunday about the musical Once on This Island referred incorrectly to a natural disaster portrayed in the performance. The island depicted is suffering the effects of a hurricane, not an earthquake.THE ARTSAn article on Saturday about a consecutive screening of 12 Marvel movies at a movie theater in Times Square misidentified the love interest of Steve Rogers (Captain America). She is Peggy, not Betty.WEEKEND ARTSA music entry in the Listings pages on Friday about a concert by the songwriter Abra misidentified the location of Abras concert on May 3. It will occur at a lot on 31st Street and 10th Avenue, not at the Shed. The article also misstated the opening date of the arts center. The Shed will open in 2019, not in May 2018.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Sunday about Larry Harvey, the driving force behind the Burning Man festival, referred incorrectly to his former girlfriend Janet Lohr, with whom he moved to San Francisco in the 1970s. She is not an executive of Burning Man.An obituary on Saturday about Charles Neville, the saxophonist in the New Orleans band the Neville Brothers, misstated the date of his birth. It was Dec. 28, 1938  not 1939. (As the obituary correctly noted, he was 79.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
