Bill Torrey, who became the first employee of the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League when he was named general manager in February 1972 and went on to build four consecutive Stanley Cup champions in the early 1980s, died on Thursday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83.His death was confirmed by his son Richard Torrey, who said he did not know the cause.Mr. Torrey, who played hockey in college but never professionally and never coached, had a gift for finding young players with the potential for brilliance.He was certain the Islanders would finish at the bottom of the league in their first season, giving them the No. 1 pick in the amateur draft afterward. He scouted a 19-year-old defenseman, Denis Potvin, at least 20 times, believing that Potvin would shore up the Islanders defense for years to come.After the Islanders indeed finished last, winning only 12 of 78 games, he obtained Potvin with that draft pick in May 1973. He also hired the longtime N.H.L. defenseman Al Arbour as the head coach. (Phil Goyette, the teams original coach, had been fired halfway through the season and replaced with Earl Ingarfield.)Potvin won the Calder Trophy as rookie of the year and was later inducted in the Hockey Hall of Fame. But he was only the first building block.Mr. Torrey obtained a host of young players who formed the Islanders nucleus, most notably Potvin and Ken Morrow on defense, Billy Smith in goal, and Bryan Trottier, Mike Bossy, Clark Gillies, Bob Nystrom, John Tonelli, Butch Goring and Bob Bourne at forward.Playing at the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, some 25 miles from the glitter of Madison Square Garden and the long-established Rangers, the Islanders were Long Islands team and forged an identity in the suburbs.Weve had young players who grew up together, Mr. Torrey remarked in May 1983, when the Islanders captured their fourth straight Stanley Cup championship. Theyve also settled on Long Island together.Nystrom, whose overtime goal against the Philadelphia Flyers gave the Islanders their first Stanley Cup championship, once recalled, Our goal was to win, not to convert Ranger fans, adding, We all came from small towns in Canada, and it was a wonderful feeling to be an Islander.Mr. Torreys Islanders won the N.H.L. championship every year from 1980 to 1983 under Arbours coaching, defeating the Flyers, the Minnesota North Stars, the Vancouver Canucks and the Edmonton Oilers in the league finals.They were only the second N.H.L. franchise to win four consecutive championships. The Montreal Canadiens, one of the leagues original franchises, won five straight, from 1956 to 1960, and four straight in the seasons before the Islanders streak.The Islanders won a league-record 19 consecutive playoff series from 1980 to 1984, when they were beaten in the Stanley Cup finals by the Oilers.Mr. Torrey  or Bow Tie Bill, as he was known for his favorite neckwear  represented a modern-era approach to hockey management in the eyes of John Ziegler, the N.H.L. president in the Islanders heyday.Bill is a new breed of general manager, Mr. Ziegler remarked when the Islanders headed toward their second consecutive championship. Hes got a business background. He understands the financial aspects of hockey. At one time, most general managers were ex-jocks.Mr. Torrey received the Lester Patrick Trophy for his contribution to hockey in the United States in 1983. He was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1995.William Arthur Torrey was born on June 23, 1934, in Montreal, to the former Josephine Leonard, a homemaker, and Arthur Torrey, who ran a brokerage firm. He played hockey at St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., for three seasons while studying business and majoring in psychology.He broke into pro sports by handling publicity and business affairs for the Pittsburgh Hornets of the American Hockey League.He became executive vice president of the Oakland Seals in 1968, a year after they joined the N.H.L. when the league expanded to 12 teams from six. He resigned in December 1970 after clashing with the teams new owner, the flamboyant and meddling Charles O. Finley, who would be best known for his tumultuous ownership of the Oakland As baseball team.When Long Island was awarded an expansion franchise in 1972, the new teams owner, Roy Boe, hired Mr. Torrey to find players.Mr. Torrey stayed on when John Pickett became the teams owner in 1978, having made impressive strides with the Islanders, who reached the playoffs for the first time in 1975, beginning a stretch of 14 consecutive winning seasons. He was later the Islanders president and chairman, while remaining general manager.The Islanders string of Stanley Cup championships ended when they lost in a five-game final series to the Oilers in 1984. There were no more championships for Long Island after that, and Mr. Torrey was ousted from his posts by a new management group in 1992.He was hired by the expansion Florida Panthers as their president in April 1993 and began building the club along with Bobby Clarke, the general manager. The Panthers set expansion-team records with 33 victories and 83 points in 1993-94 and went to the N.H.L. finals  losing to the Colorado Avalanche in four games  in their third season.His marriages to Sallie Robinson and Carolyn OKelly ended in divorce.Mr. Torrey retired in 2001. In addition to his son Richard, and two other sons from his first marriage, William and Peter, he is survived by a son from his second marriage, Arthur; a brother, David; a sister, Jane Stauffer; and 10 grandchildren. Arbour died in 2015 at 82.In October 2010, the Panthers raised a banner to honor Mr. Torrey. It was inscribed Torrey 93, representing the year the team entered the N.H.L. under his guidance.When the Islanders had paid tribute to him, the team hoisted a banner at Nassau Coliseum that read TORREY at the top and The Architect at the bottom. In between, the banner was adorned with a representation of Mr. Torreys signature bow tie.My grandfather didnt like to wear ties, and when he did he wore bow ties," Mr. Torrey told The Sun-Sentinel of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1995. I remember asking him once why he wore a bow tie and he said, When I dont have to wear it I can fold it up in my pocket, and I can do the same thing.
