Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)How did Hakan Sukur  a World Cup star, a veteran of some of Europes top soccer leagues and perhaps the most famous athlete in Turkey  end up working in a bakery in Palo Alto?Its complicated.Mr. Sukur, now 46 and still with a face as well-known as anyones back in Turkey, left the country in 2015 after a short career as a member of Parliament. A year later, there were warrants for his arrest for his longtime support of the Gulenist movement, believed by some to be behind the deadly, failed 2016 coup to topple the authoritarian regime of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a former friend and political ally.No one, it seemed, knew where Mr. Sukur went. We found him hiding in plain sight near the Stanford campus, running a high-end cafe and bakery that features, among other items, a selection of Turkish food and coffees.In Turkey, during the good years, Mr. Sukur would be mobbed by fans. In Palo Alto, most customers do not recognize the man clearing dishes or bringing food and drinks to their table.A decade ago, about when Mr. Sukur retired from soccer, Mr. Erdogan was steering Turkey toward the European Union. Mr. Sukur was elected to Parliament in 2011 as part of Mr. Erdogans party.But in recent years, Mr. Erdogan has clamped down on perceived threats  the military, courts, media, even the internet. Tens of thousands of journalists, academics and political opponents have been detained.Mr. Sukur left Parliament, quit the party and quietly came to California to visit friends, he said. He soon decided to build a life in the Bay Area. He bought a share of Tuts Cafe and Bakery, which was under construction in downtown Palo Alto, and his wife and their three children, now ages 12, 16 and 18, later joined him.After the coup, Mr. Sukurs houses and bank accounts in Turkey were seized, he said. His elderly father was jailed for months. Mr. Sukur presumes that he will never see his parents again. He does not know if he will ever return to Turkey.Still, he considers himself far luckier than the Turks who find themselves under the thumb of Mr. Erdogan and swept up by the political upheaval. His long-range plan is not to run bakeries, but to coach soccer and build sports academies  something he always thought he would do in Turkey, with his fame and wealth.Life is not where you live, Mr. Sukur said over a plate of Turkish meatballs. Its what you do where you live.Read the full story here.California Online(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) State Republicans are contending with an unsettling possibility: The party may not have a candidate for governor or United States senator on the ballot this November. [The New York Times] Orange County was once considered conservative holy ground. Now it may be the Republicans last stand. [The Associated Press] Former President Barack Obama has backed Senator Dianne Feinstein for the Democratic primary on June 5. [The Associated Press] More than 50,000 workers in the University of California system are preparing to go on strike this week. [Los Angeles Times] Californias economy has surpassed Britains to become the fifth-largest in the world. But that success has also brought growing pains: Homelessness, housing prices and traffic congestion have soared. [The New York Times] California is about to become the first state to require solar panels on most new homes. [The Orange County Register] Wells Fargo has agreed to pay $480 million to settle a class-action lawsuit by shareholders over the banks sham accounts scandal. [The New York Times] A $5 million tax on Google could alleviate the Bay Areas housing and transportation issues, says Mayor Lenny Siegel of Mountain View, where the tech giant has its headquarters. [San Francisco Chronicle] NASAs Mars InSight launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base lit up the skies early Saturday morning from Los Angeles to San Diego. [The New York Times] One of the deadliest roads in the country is in California. [The Orange County Register] On The Daily, we spoke to Paul Holes, the Contra Costa County investigator who uploaded DNA evidence to a genealogy website to identify a suspect in the Golden State Killer case. [The New York Times] As winters become warmer, American black bears arent always hibernating when they should be, leading them to search for humans food. These weather changes could happen more often in California and the Lake Tahoe area in the coming years, a study found. [The New York Times] The TV gentrifiers in Vida, a Starz series that debuted Sunday, arent white hipsters. Theyre Mexican-Americans in Los Angeless Boyle Heights. [The New York Times] This new San Francisco company is aiming to disrupt  modern dinnerware design, that is. [The New York Times]Coming Up This Week Four San Francisco mayoral candidates  Angela Alioto, Jane Kim, Mark Leno and Amy Farah Weiss  will discuss the citys neighborhoods, small businesses, and its character and culture at a forum on Monday. Doors open at 5:30 p.m. The physician Siddhartha Mukherjee will speak at the University of Southern Californias commencement on Friday, and Senator Kamala Harris will speak at U.C. Berkeleys ceremony on Saturday. Universal Studios is celebrating the 25th anniversary of Jurassic Park Friday through Sunday.And Finally ...One of Roger Gastmans earlier exhibits, Art in the Streets, was the largest museum retrospective on the subject when it opened in 2011. It broke attendance records at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles and drove debate about the nature of graffiti as an art form.Now Mr. Gastman, a graffiti historian and urban anthropologist, has followed up with Beyond the Streets. The street art showcase opened in Los Angeles on Sunday and features the work of more than 100 artists, including the feminist activist group Guerrilla Girls and the Japanese contemporary artist Takashi Murakami.I wanted to be true to the spirit of graffiti and street art: vandalism, ambition, rebellion, Mr. Gastman said. We hope this show continues to legitimize this art form and shines a light on the people who have dedicated and risked their lives for their passion.Beyond the Streets runs through July 6.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
