(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. The U.S. unemployment level fell to 3.9 percent  the lowest since 2000.April marked the 91st consecutive month of job gains, the longest streak of increases on record. But that has not led to higher wages, and experts arent quite sure why.Another important caveat: The statistic does not include people who have given up looking for work. And the unemployment rate for black Americans hovers well above the rate for white Americans.Just a few years ago, getting to an unemployment rate below 4 percent seemed impossible, our economics correspondent wrote, adding, There are benefits, for economic policymakers and everyone else, to staying open-minded about what is possible. Above, the New York Stock Exchange._____2. President Trump addressed the National Rifle Association Leadership Forum in Dallas, above.Before heading to Texas, Mr. Trump undercut Rudy Giuliani, who had asserted on Fox News that Mr. Trump had reimbursed Michael Cohen for a payment to Stormy Daniels.Mr. Giuliani just started a day ago, Mr. Trump said. He is a great guy, he added. Hell get his facts straight. Heres a timeline of the conflicting statements that members of the presidents team have made about the payment._____3. A Russian billionaire targeted by American sanctions last month has been questioned in the special counsels inquiry into election meddling. Federal agents stopped Viktor Vekselberg, above, as he stepped off a private plane at a New York-area airport this year.Mr. Vekselberg attended the presidential inauguration, and the interest in him suggests that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has intensified his focus on potential connections between Russian oligarchs and the Trump camp._____4. There will be no Nobel Prize in Literature this year, because the academy that chooses the winner has been engulfed in a sex abuse scandal.The Swedish Academy will name two winners next year. For now, it will focus on rebuilding public trust after an uproar over allegations against Jean-Claude Arnault, whose wife, the poet Katarina Frostenson, is a member. Above, the couple in 2011.Another member explained the decision this way: Who would really care to accept this award under the current circumstances?_____5. The Connecticut Supreme Court vacated the conviction of Michael Skakel, a nephew of Ethel Kennedy, who had been found guilty of killing his neighbor Martha Moxley with a golf club in 1975.It was a surprising reversal of the courts own decision less than two years ago, and it could stand as the conclusion of a case that has attracted national attention for decades. Heres a timeline of how it unfolded.Mr. Skakel and Ms. Moxley were 15 at the time of the crime, but Mr. Skakel was not charged until he was in his late 30s._____6. The European media is calling it the Big Bitcoin Heist, and its a tale that sounds like a cheesy caper film.A suspect in the biggest heist in the history of Iceland  roughly $2 million worth of Bitcoin-mining computers, which have yet to be found  escaped from the minimum-security prison above and hopped on a flight to Stockholm.Guess who else was on the plane? Icelands prime minister. But the escapee, Sindri Stefansson, wasnt nabbed until later in his trip, when a pedestrian in Amsterdam recognized him from publicity around the case._____7. Volcanic eruptions forced evacuations on the island of Hawaii, and officials warned of high levels of sulfur dioxide, a dangerous gas.Debris began spattering from the Kilauea volcano on Thursday. Photos and drone footage showed cracks opening across green yards and roadways and molten rock bursting out.No deaths or injuries were reported, and the authorities opened two community centers to shelter people who fled their homes._____8. The Trump administration is ending temporary protected status for tens of thousands of Hondurans.Theyve been allowed to live and work in the United States since 1999, following a hurricane that ravaged their country. Since last year, the administration has scrapped similar protections for immigrants from several countries, including Nepal, El Salvador, Haiti and Nicaragua.I did everything right: I worked hard, started a company, had two children and made investments here, said the contractor above, who lives on Long Island. Now I dont know what will happen._____9. Who will win the Kentucky Derby? Here are our experts picks. One of them, Joe Drape, has covered the race for 17 of the last 18 years. (He had to miss one for his sons first Holy Communion.)Fashion is important at Americas greatest race: To drink a mint julep requires a hat for the women and a pocket square for the men, Mr. Drape writes. And he reminds revelers that the day is a marathon, not a sprint, for humans.Our Cooking team has recipes for party favorites, including those mint juleps and Derby pie.NBC Sports Network coverage begins at 2:30 p.m. on Saturday; post time is 6:34 p.m., and you can watch it online here._____10. Finally, its not all bad news out there. This weeks roundup of good news includes a baby boom among humpback whales, rocks that might save the planet, and a soccer star who is breaking down barriers. (Thats Mohamed Salah of Liverpool, above.)And on the late-night shows, the hosts took stock of this weeks dizzying revelations about the $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels before the election.Giuliani said that Trump knew about and paid for Stormy Danielss hush money, Jimmy Fallon noted. Which explains Trumps newest idea: paying Rudy Giuliani $130,000 in hush money.Have a great night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
