When the Yankees traded for Giancarlo Stanton in December, adding one of baseballs best sluggers to an already potent roster, it was logical to think that the 2018 club might compare to some of the best Yankees teams of recent decades.There were even suggestions that the current group of players would measure up to the 1998 Yankees team that won 114 games in the regular season and then swept the San Diego Padres in the World Series.Such lofty ambitions will still require another five months of diligent work, but the 2018 Yankees seem to be channeling their 1998 predecessors. With their 5-2 victory over the Cleveland Indians on Saturday afternoon, the Yankees won for the 14th time in their last 15 games. The last Yankees team to enjoy a 14-1 stretch? The 1998 Yankees, of course.Weve been able to win whether we have to score with you or whether we have to win a low-scoring game, Manager Aaron Boone said. Were finding ways to win ball games, and thats, hopefully, the sign of a good team.Without Didi Gregorius or Gary Sanchez in the lineup on Saturday  both were given the day off  the Yankees scrounged four runs off Cleveland starter Trevor Bauer in the fifth inning by scoring once on a bases-loaded walk, twice on a double error by shortstop Francisco Lindor that might have otherwise been an inning-ending double play and once on a sacrifice fly.On the fly ball, Cleveland outfielder Michael Brantley seemed to throw out Ronald Torreyes, trying to advance from second to third. In addition, Torreyes was apparently tagged before Austin Romine crossed home plate with the fourth run. But the Indians chose not to appeal.So it goes for the Yankees, who cant do anything wrong even when maybe they did do something wrong. Indeed, Saturdays game was the first time the Yankees have not hit a home run at home since April 8. But that didnt matter, either.When this 15-game segment began on April 21, the Yankees were 9-9 on the season and in third place in the American League East, seven and a half games behind the Boston Red Sox. But with Saturdays victory, followed by the Red Sox victory later against the Texas Rangers, the Yankees (23-10) are one game back of Boston (24-9).During these 15 games, the Yankees have outscored their opponents by a lopsided 91-33 margin, and Yankees pitchers have compiled a stunning 2.00 earned run average. Boone also noted that the Yankees defense has looked better, too.In fact, one of the few things that Yankees fans could complain about recently were the performances of starting pitcher Sonny Gray. But even that has changed.On Saturday, Gray pitched well for the second straight outing. Again thriving with Romine behind the plate, Gray allowed just two runs and four hits over six innings to earn his second win of the season, against two losses. His previous start came in the Yankees one loss in the last 15 games  a 2-1 defeat in Houston  but in that instance Gray put up almost the same impressive numbers that he did on Saturday.And on the mound against the Indians, Gray looked more confident than he did earlier in the season.He had that look in his eye, Boone said. Even after the game talking to him, he felt really good about it.Gray said he always has plenty of confidence in himself, but he also praised Romine for the work he has done in coaxing a more aggressive approach from him.I trust that guy completely, Gray said of Romine. He added that if he is asked to throw to Sanchez again, he would be fine with that, too. But clearly there is a solid connection developing between Gray and Romine, which the Yankees are ready to stick with if it benefits Gray.The Yankees also want Romine to increase his offensive production so that he can play more and allow Sanchez to either rest or stay in the lineup as the designated hitter. Boone said he challenged Romine in spring training to develop as a hitter, and on Saturday he showed both patience and pop.Romine was 1 for 2 with a walk and is batting .286 on the season. He drew the bases-loaded walk in the fifth that gave the Yankees their first run after Bauer had set down the first 12 batters he faced. Later, Romine doubled off the wall against reliever Ben Taylor on a play where center fielder Bradley Zimmer crashed hard into the wall.Badly shaken, Zimmer left the game with a shoulder contusion and Romine later scored on a single by Brett Gardner for the Yankees final run. Romine is not the hitter Sanchez is, but his role as a backup catcher is more narrowly defined, and he was thrilled to hear about Grays unqualified faith in him.Its a huge compliment, Romine said. This is his career, hes throwing the pitches and its his E.R.A. The one thing youre striving for is when a pitcher wants to throw to you and trusts you.Sanchez is expected back in the lineup on Sunday. Then, on Tuesday, the Red Sox arrive, and the Yankees have a chance to keep up their red-hot play and move right past their division rivals. Not that Boone planned to stay up late on Saturday night to watch Boston play in Texas. Its May after all, not September.Instead, he said, he had plans for a nice dinner. I dont get caught up in it in the least, he said of the standings. At least not yet.
