Welcome to Gender Letter  a weekly take on news, trends and culture by The Timess gender editor, Jessica Bennett. Want this delivered to your inbox? Sign up here. You can also follow us on Instagram. Tell us what you think at nytgender@nytimes.com.Dear readers,If youre a person who lives on the internet, like I am, you may have noticed: Theres a lot to be enraged about (some of it arguably more rage-worthy than others).This week began and ended with a heated debate over the White House Correspondents Dinner performance of Michelle Wolf, a political comic who, as my colleague James Poniewozik wrote, did what she was invited to do and performed political comedy. This managed to ignite furious back and forth about the role of comedy (and journalism) in the current political climate  a debate also about truth, about collegiality, about gender and more. (You can read the Washington Posts roundup of reactions here, and hear Ms. Wolf defend her set  I wouldnt change a single word, she told Terry Grosson NPR.)There was also a blowup over a New York Times Op-Ed column by Ross Douthat about incels, in which he delves into a rather creepy study arguing for the redistribution of sex. (Not sure what an incel is? Read this.)Some asked on Twitter for a response from me, as gender editor. While I dont edit Ross Douthat, I will point you to the very smart sex educator and author Jaclyn Friedman, who tweeted: Sex is not a commodity. Women are not a commodity. Sex workers are not a commodity. Sex is an ACTIVITY. You cant redistribute sex any more than you can redistribute dancing.And then there were new revelations about Charlie Rose, the television broadcaster who was among the many powerful men felled by allegations of sexual misconduct: As the Washington Post first reported in this article, an additional 27 women  14 CBS employees and 13 who worked with him elsewhere  said Mr. Rose had sexually harassed them. Those concerns had been flagged to at least three managers.Ugh.But!I was also inspired by an incredible woman this week, whose  obituary we published in The Times: Gertrude Jeannette, believed to be the first woman to drive a taxi in New York City, back in the 1940s.To find a female taxi driver in New York City remains rare, so to imagine this woman doing her thing at a time when black drivers like her often endured racist insults  and were bullied into working in particular parts of the city  is remarkable.On her first day on the job, she got into an accident. But not the way you think. She had pulled up to the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in Manhattan, looking for a fare.In those days they didnt allow black drivers to work downtown; you had to work uptown, she noted years later .As cabbies hurled insults at her, she remained calmly on the line  until another cab cut in front of her. She rear-ended him, tearing his bumper. To which the man screamed: A woman driver! A woman driver!Ms. Jeannette died this month at 103 at her home in Harlem. Next time you take a taxi, think of her.Have a good weekend,Jessica______In the News #MuteRKelly. For more than two decades, R. Kelly has outrun allegations of misconduct. But in the era of #MeToo and #TimesUp, it looks like his reputation is finally catching up with him. Read about the movement against him in The Times here, new allegations in Buzzfeed here, and this  visual timeline of the allegations against him in Vox. [Various] No Other Women At All: Six servicewomen and veterans speak about what it was like to be among the first female fighter pilots in the military. [New York Times] The Heimlich maneuver... for harassment: Borrowing from the design of the standard Heimlich maneuver poster you can find in most restaurants, the magazine Cherry Bombe, which celebrates women in the culinary world, has produced a poster showing steps to take in the case of sexual harassment. [Cherry Bombe] Pimping Us Out: In the latest beat of the ongoing inquiry into the treatment of N.F.L. cheerleaders, my colleague in the sports department, Juliet Macur, broke another blockbuster this week: Redskins cheerleaders being required to pose for topless photo shoots in front of male sponsors and a night out as personal escorts. Read that story, or check out all our cheerleader coverage here. [New York Times] Denim Will Bring Us Together: Half of Americans wear jeans the majority of the week and  get this  its bipartisan: 50 percent of Democrats and 54 percent of Republicans report jeans-wearing at least four days out of seven. [Morning Consult via Significant Digits] Troop Gender Equality? In 2019, the Boy Scouts of America  will change the name of its program for older youth to Scouts BSA and start welcoming girls. [New York Times] A Native American AG? Tatewin Means of South Dakota is one of the record number of Native American women running for political office this year. If she wins, she would become the first Native American woman attorney general in any state. [Refinery 29] #MeToo Lawsuits: Stormy Daniels is suing Donald Trump for defamation, seeking unspecified damages. Ashley Judd has sued Harvey Weinstein, saying he harmed her career. And Roy Moore, the former judge who lost the Alabama Senate race, has sued four women, claiming defamation and conspiracy. [New York Times] ICYMI: Alexandra Petri responded to the Michelle Wolf contretemps with  these Good Approved Jokes for the White House Correspondents Dinner. [Washington Post]____________By The Numbers45 percent The amount less that books by women are priced compared to books by men, according to new research from a sociologist and mathematician at Queens College-City University of New York. Authors with female names are also paid 9 percent less than those with male names. [Fast Company]______Thats What She SaidTwenty five years ago, Liz Phair  a kind of Midwestern girl next door took a sledgehammer to rock n roll as we knew it, singing about sex, lust and power in a way that few women before her had. If ever there was a time to revisit her breakout first album, Exile in Guyville, it feels like its nowwhen the walls of Guyville everywhere seem to be tumbling. Heres my interview with her.From the ArchivesWondering what makes liberated women nuts? This article, published by The New York Times in 1973, offers a helpful list of pet peeves  including referring to secretaries as my girl; assuming that youre too cute to be an engineer! is a compliment; and offering assistance like, Let me help you with that, baby. Ill let you enjoy the rest.______Like this newsletter? Sign up here to get Gender Letter delivered to your inbox. Want us in your Instagram? We gotchu. Tell us what you think here.With research and production by Sharon Attia, news assistant queen.
