CASCAIS, Portugal  Frances Tiafoe looked ready for big-time success on the tennis court in this suburb of Lisbon  until he was handed a celebratory Champagne bottle after the final on Sunday.Tiafoe, the runner-up, struggled to open it for several minutes before being helped by a tournament emcee.Terrible, Tiafoe said of his uncorking effort in an interview after the final. That needs work. That definitely needs work.Tiafoe, 20, was the youngest American man to reach a tour final on European clay in 28 years; Andre Agassi was two months younger when he reached the final of the 1990 French Open. Tiafoe fell, 6-4, 6-4, in the final of the Estoril Open to Joo Sousa, who was the first Portuguese champion of a tour-level event in Portugal.Hes a great guy and hes improving a lot, Sousa, 29, said of Tiafoe. Hes going to reach a lot of finals.Playing in front of a crowd vociferously and unanimously supporting his opponent was a new experience that didnt feel great, Tiafoe said, but there were plenty of positives to draw from the week. His semifinal performance, a 6-2, 6-3 thrashing of 11th-ranked Pablo Carreo Busta, was especially impressive. He also saved three match points in an opening-round victory over Tennys Sandgren.It was an unbelievable week, and I hope I can just keep it going, Tiafoe said.He has been considered one of the greatest prospects in his generation from a young age, but since turning pro in 2015 he has achieved relatively little at the tour level.He drew some attention for five-set losses in the first round of the United States Open against John Isner in 2016 and Roger Federer in 2017, but coming into the 2018 season, Tiafoe had won only nine of his 38 career main-draw matches on the ATP Tour. Only one of those victories came against a top-30 opponent.Tiafoe has 15 wins already this season, including six against top-30 opponents. He reached his first tour quarterfinal at the New York Open in February, and won his first title in Delray Beach, Fla., one week later.The surge seemed unlikely after the first month of the season. After going winless in two tournaments in Australia, Tiafoe returned home to Maryland downtrodden.You get a lot of things going in your head when youre young and you havent really experienced it, said Tiafoe, who is ranked 56th, a career-high. Its not like you can just turn it on.Going back to his roots allowed Tiafoe to reorient his mind-set and his season.I went home and really recuperated, he said. Being back home is a great thing for me, being with my family, being with friends, being with people that have got your back no matter what. I had some deep talks with everyone, and their support meant a lot to me and it was something that I needed to hear.Tiafoe decided to take part of his support system with him on the road full-time, adding his friend Zack Evenden, a 26-year-old Briton who played collegiate tennis at Florida A&M, to his traveling team to complement the work of his primary coach, Robby Ginepri.Its the best thing Ive done, the best decision Ive made, having him here, Tiafoe said. He keeps it real with me. He keeps the tour fun for me.At first we were just friends, but now hes definitely taken on a coaching role under Robby. Robby comes to the bigger events, but Zacks there each and every day. I credit all my success to him.That stability has helped ground Tiafoe, who admits he has had a lot of things going on previously, including changing agencies twice in his young career.Evenden said that a key for Tiafoe had been learning to take ownership of his tennis and measure his own gifts.Hes understanding that he doesnt have to play his best tennis, highlight-reel tennis, in every match just to get wins, Evenden said. Hes starting to get comfortable on the tour and realized that he doesnt have to have the match of his life just to get a win.Tiafoes comfort level on the tour shows itself in other ways.As he returned to the clubhouse after the final Sunday, Tiafoe turned up the stereo in a tournament car and gave a brief impromptu performance of OutKasts The Way You Move to an audience of charmed volunteers.Its good to bring a different feel to tennis, and thats what I feel like I bring, he said. I bring a different feel, a different swagger to tennis. Im very easygoing, and very nonchalant, it looks like, when Im out there  Ive got a little strut, and I like that.Theres no reason trying to fit in: Just be you, he added. That was the biggest thing for me, just being me, and finding what works for me. I have that balance of having fun  because I can need to have a ton of fun  but also locking it in at times. Ive found the perfect balance for me right now, and Im being mature and growing as a tennis player.
