MONTERREY, Mexico  The Dodgers have the most no-hitters in the major leagues  and now the most in Mexico, too.The rookie Walker Buehler and three Los Angeles relievers combined for the franchises 23rd no-hitter in a 4-0 victory over the San Diego Padres on Friday night in the opener of a neutral-site series.Mexico had waited since 1999 to host a regular-season big league game, and it got a historic one: the first no-hitter outside the United States or Canada, and the 12th combined no-hitter in major league history.It was awesome, Buehler said. Its one of those things, to pitch in a place like this, an atmosphere like this. It was awesome.A crowd of 21,536 at Estadio de Beisbol Monterrey saw Buehler stay poised despite some steady rain early on. In just his third start in the majors, he went six innings before Tony Cingrani, Yimi Garcia and Adam Liberatore closed it out.Buehler, a 23-year-old right-hander taken in the first round of the 2015 amateur draft, struck out eight and walked three. After 93 pitches, he was pulled from the game. Cingrani walked two in the seventh but kept the no-hitter intact.Its probably one of the toughest conversations I ever had, I wanted to keep going, Buehler said of being taken out. But they made the choice, and the guys finished out and it was cool.I threw one in high school, but I gave up two runs in the first inning, so that one doesnt really count, Buehler said.Garcia struck out two in a perfect eighth and Liberatore threw a 1-2-3 ninth, striking out Franchy Cordero to end it with the Dodgers 146th pitch.That ended a festive night that began with a ceremonial first pitch thrown by the Dodgers great Fernando Valenzuela, who became a star in the United States and Mexico and set off Fernandomania when he became a fan favorite in the 1980s.Valenzuela pitched a no-hitter against St. Louis at Dodger Stadium on June 29, 1990, the same night Oaklands Dave Stewart pitched a no-hitter at Toronto  one of five in Canada, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.The Dodgers threw this no-hitter on the same night Albert Pujols of the Los Angeles Angels got his 3,000th hit in a game at Seattle. When Pujols hit his 600th home run at home against Minnesota last June 3, Miamis Edinson Volquez pitched a no-hitter at home against Arizona.These accomplishments evoked memories of the day in 1985 when Rod Carew got his 3,000th hit and Tom Seaver won his 300th game.And the team with the most no-hitters in major league history  Boston is second with 18  accomplished the feat against the only franchise that has not pitched any.This series was part of Major League Baseballs push to internationalize the sport. No doubt, souvenirs from this game will wind up in the Hall of Fame.Buehlers highest pitch count in the majors is 94 pitches, reached in his previous outing against San Francisco.Its one of those where youre pretty angry to come out, but the bullpen, the guys that we have, I trust it in their hands, too, he said. And it worked out.Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts is not afraid to pull a young pitcher during a no-hitter. He removed the then-rookie Ross Stripling from a bid against San Francisco with one out in the eighth inning in 2016. Reliever Chris Hatcher allowed a home run to the next batter.This one worked out better for Roberts, giving baseball its second no-hitter of the season. The Oakland left-hander Sean Manaea threw the first, against Boston on April 21.Joey Lucchesi (3-2) allowed three runs and five hits as the last-place Padres dropped to 11-22.Matt Kemp had an R.B.I. single on a pop-up to the shortstop in the first inning, and Chris Taylor and Enrique Hernandez hit consecutive homers in the second. Alex Verdugo singled in a run in the sixth against Adam Cimber.This is the fourth time that I get to see a no-hitter, but the first one that Im on the good end of it, Hernandez said. Walker was electric and the relievers did a great job. Its not an easy feat. Its a night that no one is going to forget.
