There is no shortage of story lines surrounding the 20 horses who earned a spot in the starting gate for the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby on Saturday. And whats the Derby, the annual springtime soiree that is the longest continually held sporting event in the United States, without hope?[Who will win? Our experts make their picks here.]Todd Pletcher has four chances to win.Pletcher, 50, has four Derby entrants  the Florida Derby winner Audible, the Arkansas Derby winner Magnum Moon, the Wood Memorial winner Vino Rosso and the Louisiana Derby winner Noble Indy  the sixth time he has had four or more running in a single Derby. When the gate opens, he will overtake the storied trainer D. Wayne Lukas, with whom he was tied at 48 for the most Derby starters. (Lukas, 82, will saddle Bravazo.) In 48 tries, however, Pletcher has only won the Derby twice, breaking through in 2010 with Super Saver and winning last year with Always Dreaming. When you only have one, thats pressure too, because if something happens, youre out of the race, period, he said. So I think it kind of goes both ways.Will the curse be reversed?One of Pletchers runners, Magnum Moon, is undefeated in four starts, and Justify, the morning-line favorite who is trained by the Triple Crown-winning Bob Baffert, is undefeated in three starts. So whats not to like? One word: Apollo. No horse has won the Derby after not starting as a 2-year-old since Apollo in 1882, leading to the Curse of Apollo. A lot of people have told me, Please get a start in my horse before so we can get that thing out of the way, Baffert said of owners pushing to race their 2-year-old horses.If ever there were horses who could reverse the curse, these two may be the ones. Justify defeated the talented colt Bolt dOro by three lengths in the Santa Anita Derby. And Magnum Moon went wire-to-wire in the Arkansas Derby. I think when the right horse comes along, it will happen, Pletcher said.[READ MORE: Mendelssohn is a Kentucky Derby Contender, via Ireland]The overseas invader who has a real shot.Mendelssohn won the U.A.E. Derby  his first race on dirt no less  by a whopping 18 1/2 lengths, setting a track record at Meydan Racecourse in Dubai. Mendelssohn is trained by the Irishman Aidan OBrien and ridden by the Englishman Ryan Moore. Both of them have had success on the international circuit. All of that adds up to Mendelssohn being a popular pick to become the first U.A.E. Derby winner to smell the roses. The best finish in nine tries has been sixth place, but nothing compares with the performance of last years U.A.E. Derby winner, Thunder Snow, who mistook the Derby for a saddle bronc competition and did not finish. (He went on to win the Dubai World Cup this year.)With Gronkowski out, who will be the sentimental pick?When Gronkowski  who earned a Derby berth by topping the inaugural European Road to the Kentucky Derby series  was withdrawn from the race after developing a fever days after his namesake, the New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski, bought a stake in the colt, some were left to wonder who the sentimental favorite may be. Dont fret: Theres still a connection to the N.F.L. in this Derby: Lone Sailor is owned by Gayle Benson, the wife of the New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson, who died on March 15. How about rooting for the final crop of the prolific sire Scat Daddy, who died at age 11 in 2015? Four of his offspring are in the Derby (Justify, Mendelssohn, Combatant and Flameaway). Then theres My Boy Jack, who surely will be a pick-the-name favorite.But who will actually win?The way I see it, about five or six horses have solid shots. Justify may prove to possess so much raw talent that Apollo is no match. Heres my picks: Good Magic, Justify, Hofburg. My colleague Joe Drapes picks are Bolt dOro, My Boy Jack, Noble Indy. [READ MORE: Our experts picks]
