FRONT PAGEAn article on April 28 about Palestinians protesting along the fence between Gaza and Israel referred imprecisely to the fence. While the fence is fitted with electronic sensors to detect infiltrators, it is not an electrified fence.INTERNATIONALA photo caption with an article on Wednesday about local elections in Britain misstated the borough represented by Steven Saxby, a clergyman running for Parliament. It is Westminster, not Westchester.An article on Wednesday about the Armenian opposition leader, Nikol Pashinyan, referred incorrectly to Mr. Pashinyans party affiliation. He is a member of a small opposition alliance called Yelq; it is not the case that he has no political affiliation.NATIONALAn article on Wednesday about a lawsuit brought by Texas and six other states to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals described incorrectly the lawsuits request. The suit states that the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas has the power to immediately rescind and cancel all DACA permits currently in existence; it does not ask the court to do so.OPINIONAn Op-Ed essay on Tuesday about using philosophy to navigate lifes challenges misstated the name of Raphael Demoss professorship at Harvard. He was the Alford Professor of Natural Religion, Moral Philosophy and Civil Polity, not Civil Policy.SPORTSAn article on Tuesday about the Houston Astros pitching lineup referred incorrectly to the Boston Red Sox earned run average. After the Astros, the Red Sox have the next best E.R.A. in the American League, not in baseball.ARTSAn article on Tuesday about the musical Hair misstated the location of its premiere in 1967. It was at the Public Theater, not the New York Shakespeare Festival.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Tuesday about the artist Gerson Leiber, using information from a family spokesman, omitted the names of two of his survivors. In addition to his brother, Dr. Joseph Leiber, he is survived by two sisters, Martha Dermer and Sarah Stachel.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
