NATIONALAn article on Thursday about the former lobbyist Matthew Freedman misstated the title of Kevin Chmielewski before he was removed from his position at the Environmental Protection Agency this year. He was deputy chief of staff, not chief of staff.An article on Wednesday about protests over austerity measures in Puerto Rico misidentified the party that ratified the tuition increase at the University of Puerto Rico. The university ratified the increase, not the federal board that oversees Puerto Ricos finances.An article on Wednesday about the disproportionately small amount of hurricane aid Puerto Rico has received from the Department of Education described imprecisely how New York University used hurricane relief funds from the Department of Education. N.Y.U. was given funds to defray the costs of Puerto Rican students it had enrolled at the university, not to enroll Puerto Rican students temporarily.OPINIONAn editorial on Wednesday about anti-Semitic comments by the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, misidentified the signers of the Oslo Accords in 1993. They were Mr. Abbas, then the foreign policy aide for the Palestine Liberation Organization, and Shimon Peres, the foreign minister of Israel. The Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel attended the ceremony but did not sign the pact.SPORTSAn article on Thursday misidentified the inning in which Yankees pitcher Luis Severino confronted his only trouble spot. It was in the seventh inning, not the sixth. The article also misquoted the teams manager, Aaron Boone. He said, Hopefully we are proficient at helping guys develop at a better and maybe in some cases a more rapid pace, not a more rapid case.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Thursday about the artist Marcia Hafif misstated her age. She was 88, not 89. The error was repeated in the headline. (As the obituary correctly noted, she was born on Aug. 15, 1929.)Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
