Netflixs colonization of international television continues, with the debut on Friday of the eco-thriller The Rain, the first Netflix-financed series made in Denmark. Other streaming services have strong footholds in the wide territory of Scandinavian TV, too, and The Rain is one of three premieres in a four-day stretch that offer a short historical primer in Nordic drama.The CourtIf youve watched a 2015 Icelandic mystery called Case on Netflix, you probably wondered what the deal was with Logi (Magnus Jonsson), the burned-out lawyer whose background was barely sketched in. It was as if we were already supposed to know his story.It turns out we were, and now we can watch it thanks to Walter Presents, which offers the first season of the legal drama The Court (Rettur)  the landmark Icelandic series later rebooted as Case  beginning on Thursday.Released in January 2009, just a few months into the small nations great financial crash, The Court appears to have some of the energy and melodramatic verve of the David E. Kelley courtroom shows that came just before it, like Boston Legal and The Practice. (Walter Presents made only one of the seasons six episodes available.)Mr. Jonsson, shaggy and shapeless in Case, sports close-cropped hair and form-fitting suits as the younger Logi, whos a consummate egotist  he answers the phone Icelands lawyer here. His aggressiveness comes out of a checkered past that includes a manslaughter conviction and a bankruptcy, and in the pilot he jumps to a new, smaller firm in search of partner status.The Court, with its case-of-the-week structure and focus on the lawyers personal lives, feels very early 21st-century American, and maybe its not a coincidence that the name of Logis new firm is Law & Order.Arne DahlTheres no one in Arne Dahl named Arne Dahl. Its the pen name of Jan Arnald, the writer whose series of 10 crime novels was turned into the two seasons of this Swedish cop drama. All 20 episodes  two per mystery  will soon be available on MHz Choice, which began a weekly release of Season 2 on Tuesday.Arne Dahl and the excellent Swedish-Danish series The Bridge both came out in 2011 and shared a production company, Filmlance International. But theyre like two sides of the police-procedural coin. The Bridge (available on Hulu) was thoroughly up-to-date, devoted to deep psychology and complicated season-long plots. Arne Dahl, about a six-person team called (perhaps with a touch of mordant Swedish humor) the A unit, is a throwback, with its large, chatty ensemble and its old-school self-contained, movie-length mysteries.There was a four-year gap between seasons, and Season 2 of Arne Dahl is more polished  brighter and tighter  but offers the same rewards of copious investigative detail, numerous bloody deaths and lightly clichd but pleasantly performed personal drama. Most of the original team is reassembled under the no-nonsense leadership of Kerstin Holm (Malin Arvidsson).The grim cases are leavened with humor thats a little sharper than team-cop dramas usually provide. In one running joke, every time the chief drops by Holms apartment with a congratulatory loaf of walnut bread, shes in bed with a different colleague. And when a character cant find something to watch, a friend asks, The Bridge Season 2, have you seen that?The RainNetflixs new Scandi-drama brings us to the present in more ways than one. Its engineered for current TV trends, and specifically for what appear to be Netflixs appetites: a post-apocalyptic sci-fi-and-horror blend with an environmental theme and a cast of attractive teenage and twentysomething survivors.The eight-episode first season (three were available) gets off to a breathless start. A pair of scientists snatch their daughter, Simone, from high school and take her and her young brother, Rasmus, to a bunker in the forest just before a virus-carrying rain starts to fall over Denmark. The parents know whats up, but theyre gone before they can provide answers.This cues the passage-of-time montage  lonely birthday parties, indoor plants growing and dying, isolation as an excuse for Simone (Alba August) to walk around in her underwear, Rasmus suddenly played by an older actor (Lucas Lynggaard Tonnesen). Six years quickly pass, then events force the siblings out of the bunker and on a long walk toward Sweden.The Rain is like a lot of contagion-thriller and teenage-survival shows, but more than anything its a young-adult version of The Walking Dead. The siblings fall in with a twitchy, disparate band of alternately friendly and distrusting fellow travelers, and they confront starving survivors who arent a whole lot more human than the Walking Dead zombies. Artfully piled trash and strategically abandoned cars simulate urban desolation, here in Copenhagen rather than Atlanta. Simone is obsessed with her responsibility to protect Rasmus, as if she were a younger, gentler Rick Grimes.The Rain is lighter in every way than The Walking Dead, though  more lightweight but also more easygoing and humorous. Its not gripping, as either an adventure or an intellectual exercise. But its entertaining, and the narrative pull toward the answers that may lie near Stockholm is strong. And as a Scandi-drama bonus, getting there will probably require crossing the Oresund bridge, the hulking, silent star of The Bridge.
