For much of Thursdays game between the Mets and the Atlanta Braves, there was little doubt as to who would win. With the Braves leading 11-0, the remaining question was, would this be merely a bad loss? Or a historically humiliating one?Asdrubal Cabrera lifted the Mets out of humiliation territory when he lined Julio Teherans hanging curveball, one of the few mistakes the Braves starter made all day, into the right-field corner for a double, breaking up a no-hitter with two outs in the seventh inning.There would be no history on this day, but plenty of ignominy.The Mets were spared being no-hit, but there was still the ugliness of being swept at home by a divisional rival, of yet another dispiriting outing by starting pitcher Jason Vargas, and of Matt Harveys continuing struggles since he moved from the starting rotation to the bullpen. Over the last two games of this series, the Mets were outscored 18-0 by the Braves.It was the kind of game that entirely wiped out what had been a positive pregame vibe, after a magnetic resonance imaging exam revealed no structural damage in the pitching elbow of Jacob deGrom, who had left after four innings of Wednesdays 7-0 loss.Making his second start since missing virtually all of April with a broken right (non-throwing) hand, Vargas  who allowed nine earned runs in less than four innings in his season debut on April 28  was pummeled again, allowing six runs in four and two-thirds innings and surrendering three home runs.Harvey, brought on in the fifth inning, got through the first four batters he faced, and then fell apart in the seventh, walking three batters, allowing a run-scoring single and another run on a sacrifice fly, capped by a backbreaking, three-run home run to Ozzie Albies. Jerry Blevins came on to record the final out of the seventh.It was the Mets 10th loss in their last 15 games, a stretch that began when they lost two of three at home to another divisional rival, the Washington Nationals, in mid-April. The Mets began that series with Washington at 12-2 with a three-game lead atop the National League East, and on Thursday they were 17-12 and two games behind the Braves.Its what happens over the course of a long baseball season, Manager Mickey Callaway said. Youre going to have ups and downs. Things have not gone well lately but eventually well come out of it.It was not unusual for the Mets to be dominated by Teheran (2-1, 3.65 E.R.A.), who is 9-5 against them in 21 career starts, and whose 2.31 E.R.A. against the Mets since 2013 is the lowest of any opposing pitcher other than Max Scherzer, who is also the last pitcher to have no-hit them, in 2015.On the other end of the pitching spectrum, Vargas was ineffective from the start, allowing a two-run home run in the first inning to Kurt Suzuki, and a solo home run to rookie Ronald Acuna Jr. and a two-run shot to Nick Markakis in the fifth inning. Vargas has now allowed five home runs in his first eight and one-third innings this season, and his E.R.A. stands at 16.20.Callaway pointed to the second, third and fourth innings, in which Vargas held the Braves scoreless on four hits, as signs of progress. But Vargas, who signed a two-year, $16 million contract this off-season, disagreed.Because of the outcome, the feeling is the same as after the first outing, he said. Im throwing quality pitches early in the count and then not putting the hitters away. Ive just got to try to get better and keep the team in the ballgame the next time out.Callaway also saw signs of improvement in Harvey, although in four appearances since being relegated to the bullpen, Harvey has allowed seven earned runs in six innings.Im still struggling with it, obviously, Harvey said of his new role. Im still trying to figure out the workout schedules and the throwing programs and all that stuff to get ready. I think my first full inning of work was very positive for me and Ill just try to build from that.Said Callaway: Its just a little blip in the road. Hes got a ways to go but one thing we cant ever do is give up on anybody. We got make sure we do the best we can with Matt Harvey.
