ATLANTA  Bruce Bochy kept the faith when San Francisco\'s hitters struggled in the first three weeks of the season.The Giants suddenly are showing that their manager had good reason to remain confident.Buster Posey and Andrew McCutchen each had three of San Francisco\'s 18 hits and the hot-hitting Giants rolled over Brandon McCarthy and the Atlanta Braves 11-2 on Saturday night.Alen Hanson homered and drove in four runs, Gorkys Hernandez had four hits and Brandon Crawford had three hits and two RBIs for the Giants. San Francisco has won three straight and 10 of 13, and has scored at least nine runs in each of its three straight wins."We\'ve had our tough go with the offense," Bochy said. "I kept saying we\'re going to come out of this. It\'s good to have a lot of guys swing the bat well."The Giants scored no more than one run in 10 of their first 18 games. Now, with contributions from such players as Hanson, a replacement for injured second baseman Joe Panik, the Giants are making believers of the Braves."The Giants are a team I think that has a chance to go a long way," said McCarthy, who gave up eight runs and 12 hits in only 3 1/3 innings. "That\'s a really good lineup. ... That\'s a pretty good group one through nine."Braves manager Brian Snitker said it\'s difficult to pitch to veteran hitters like Posey, McCutchen and Crawford."You\'ve got to make pitches on them," Snitker said. "They don\'t chase a lot."Bochy told reporters before the game he had difficulty talking his way into a parking lot. He posted Twitter after the game it was worth the trouble. "... I\'ll park wherever they want me to if I get 11 runs," he said.Ty Blach (3-3) gave up only one earned run in 7 2/3 innings for San Francisco.Hanson\'s second-inning double to center field drove in Brandon Belt and Crawford. Hanson pulled a pitch down the right-field line for a two-run homer in the third.The Giants scored four runs on six hits off McCarthy (4-1) in the third, including a run-scoring single by Belt. Evan Longoria following with a bloop double in front of diving Nick Markakis for his 1,500th career hit , driving in Posey.Jose Bautista, whose contract was selected from Triple-A Gwinnett on Friday to become Atlanta\'s starting third baseman , led off the fourth with a single for his only hit.TRAINER\'S ROOMGiants: OF Mac Williamson was eligible to be reinstated from the seven-day concussion DL but that plan was put on hold for at least one day. Williamson, also recovering from a virus, was checked by a doctor after taking batting practice, but no decision was announced regarding a possible roster move on Sunday. ... RHP Reyes Moronta threw eight straight balls to open the ninth before he was removed due to a tight back.Braves: LHP Max Fried was optioned to Triple-A Gwinnett after pitching on back-to-back days for the first time in his career. RHP Lucas Sims was recalled and allowed two runs in 3 2/3 innings after relieving McCarthy. ... RHP Jose Ramirez (right shoulder inflammation), who has been on the 10-day DL since April 18, started throwing on Friday.MELANCON IMPRESSESGiants right-hander Mark Melancon (right elbow strain), who threw 20 pitches in his first bullpen session, appears to be on track to come off the 60-day DL on May 25, when first eligible. "The way he threw today, I would totally agree," Bochy said. "The way he threw today was really encouraging."MARKAKIS STREAKINGMarkakis had three hits, including a run-scoring double in the third, to extend his hitting streak to 12 games. He improved his NL-leading batting average to .346.ANOTHER BIG CROWDAttendance was 38,242 one night after the home debut of Braves rookie Ronald Acuna Jr. drew a SunTrust Park record total of 41,807. Acuna was 0 for 4 for the second straight game.UP NEXTGiants: LHP Andrew Suarez (0-1, 4.38) is scheduled to make his third career major league start on Sunday. Suarez was recalled from Triple-A Sacramento for the second time this season on Tuesday.Braves: RHP Mike Soroka (1-0, 1.50) will make his second start for Atlanta after allowing only one run in six innings in a 3-2 win over the Mets on Tuesday.___For more AP baseball coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
