(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. President Trump plunged into a dispute between conservative House Republicans and the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, over access to information about some of his biggest cases  including the Russia inquiry.Mr. Rosenstein, above center, who is overseeing the special counsel investigation, has given the lawmakers access to hundreds of thousands of pages of documents. But he has also made it clear in recent days that he does not intend to go further.Mr. Trump sided with the lawmakers, writing on Twitter: At some point I will have no choice but to use the powers granted to the Presidency and get involved!And the president plans to hire Emmet Flood, the veteran lawyer who represented Bill Clinton during his impeachment, to replace the White House lawyer Ty Cobb, who is retiring. Mr. Flood is expected to take a more adversarial role than Mr. Cobb had in dealing with the special counsel investigation._____2. The political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica announced that it would cease most operations and file for bankruptcy. Above, a mail carrier outside the firms empty office in Washington.The move comes less than two months after it became embroiled in a scandal over its misuse of data from up to 87 million Facebook users.The revelations, published by The New York Times and The Observer of London, prompted regulators and lawmakers to begin investigations into the firm, which had counted the Trump campaign among its clients._____3. In Israel, a new law giving the prime minister and defense minister the authority to go to war without cabinet approval is drawing criticism  and just as the country faces rising tensions with Iran, Syria and Gaza.Critics said the law concentrates power in the hands of a few. Its passing was initially overshadowed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus news conference the same night, above, on a huge cache of stolen Iranian nuclear plans.Israel says the plans prove that Iran was lying for years about its nuclear program. The claim has been embraced by the Trump administration, in a stark divergence from its European allies._____4. Iowa lawmakers passed a bill that would outlaw most abortions when a fetal heartbeat is detected, usually around six weeks.If signed into law by Gov. Kim Reynolds, a Republican, it would be among the most restrictive abortion laws in the nation.Its designed to set off legal challenges  and return the fight over abortion to the Supreme Court, where conservatives hope that new justices might help overturn Roe v. Wade._____5. A caravan of migrants, mainly from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador, is waiting at the Mexican border in Tijuana to claim asylum, hoping to win permission to stay in the U.S. Above, the caravan during a stop in Mexicali.Experts say their claims will probably be denied, even if they fear for their lives because of gang violence. Our reporter in Los Angeles explains how asylum decisions are made._____6. In other immigration news: Some American school districts, unable to find teachers willing to work for the pay offered, are recruiting teachers from abroad. The teachers get special visas that allow them to work temporarily, but offer no path to citizenship.Donato Soberano, above, is one of those recruits. He is from the Philippines and teaches in Arizona.The schools say that the foreign teachers are being given valuable opportunities, and that American students are enriched by learning from them. But critics argue the teachers are being taken advantage of in a practice that helps keep wages low and perpetuates austerity policies._____7. The two black men who were arrested while waiting in a Starbucks last month have reached an agreement with Philadelphia: The city will spend $200,000 to help young entrepreneurs.And the men, Rashon Nelson, left, and Donte Robinson, will each be given one dollar. (They will also receive a confidential financial settlement from Starbucks.)A spokesman for Philadelphia said the $200,000 would be spent on a pilot program for high school students who want to become entrepreneurs, and city officials will work with Mr. Robinson and Mr. Nelson to develop a grant committee._____8. A Washington Redskins cheerleaders trip to Costa Rica is the latest  and perhaps most egregious  example of how N.F.L. teams require cheerleaders to do much more than dance at football games.The team flew the cheerleaders there in 2013 for a calendar photo shoot, above, that included topless shots taken in front of male sponsors. Afterward, participants say, some of them were required to escort the sponsors to a nightclub.The cheerleaders felt as if they were being pimped out, and that their safety was not taken seriously. And they were paid nothing beyond transportation costs, meals and lodging for the weeklong trip._____9. Meet Mohamed Salah, the breakout star of European soccer this season.The Egyptian player for Liverpool has scored 43 goals in 48 games, and helped the team reach its first Champions League final in more than a decade. And after each goal, he kneels and prays on the field.At a time when Britain is fighting rising Islamophobia, he is a North African and a Muslim who is not just accepted in Britain, but adored._____10. Finally, our pop music critic writes that Kanye Wests recent behavior may pose the largest existential threat to his empire to date.Whats played out over the past two weeks is a kind of psychological tug of war, with Mr. West reinforcing his most unsettling positions while, all around him, what amounts to a collective global rescue effort for his mind and soul (and, in truth, his legacy) is playing out in real time, he wrote.And on the late-night night shows, Seth Meyers imagined what President Trump might ask the special prosecutor, Robert Mueller, if the tables were turned: Is it pronounced muh-ler, myoo-ler, or mueslix?Have a great night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
