SATURDAY PUZZLE  Is it too Eastern Seaboard-centric of me to comment on the glorious warm weather thats finally arrived? Spring fever has definitely kicked in, and with it an uptick in energy and corresponding lack of focus ( la POGO at 14A, which reminds me that our local possum has finished its winter nap and we need to start keeping our garbage in overnight again  he or she is more focused than we are).Damon Gulczynskis puzzle today has a taste of everything, like a good Saturday puzzle should  unfair to call it a HODGEPODGE, more of a delectable mlange of entries. The clues for ADAM, ITCH, DEAFEN, ROOSTS, SAPS and even little OBS all struck me as fun today.Tricky Clues16A: Are any other Wordplay regulars reminded of this other thing 90 percent of us have? I would never have guessed INNIE, as in concave navel; Id never really considered the statistics or the reason of the innie versus the outie. Apparently, there is a third group, that might famously include Alfred Hitchcock, people who have had a hernia surgery that basically removes the visible navel altogether.24A: This clue  Code violation requiring an emergency exit? reminded me of one of those Block that metaphor examples from The New Yorker. The code isnt penal, its computational, and the emergency exit isnt at the end of your row, its another little bit of code to break the program you wrote out of an ENDLESS LOOP. I liked it; this entry has appeared once before, in 2001, clued much more tersely: Loo. It was lovely how this entry led into 26D, and almost ended with 11D.62A: MANNA may be what rises in your memory, but MATZO is whats called for here. This is one of those twinsies we get on Saturday (I also thought of TERMS before DOOMS at 6A) that can make a gimme a gotcha. Makes one shake ones cruciverbal fist, eh?1D: More often clued as a noun, SPUME (or SPUMED, in this case) can also be a verb. The word comes from Latin for foam and is the root for such bubbly deliciousness as Asti Spumante, and frothy treats like Spumoni.3D: We had Idi Amin in the puzzle last week, I think; this clue refers to a book and movie about his rise and fall, whose name was taken from one of the dictators boastful and unrealistic proclamations, a title he gave himself. According to NPR, the full title was His Excellency President for Life Field Marshal Al Hadji Dr. Idi Amin, VC, DSO, MC, King of Scotland Lord of All the Beasts of the Earth and Fishes of the Sea and Conqueror of the British Empire in Africa in General and UGANDA in Particular. Whether Amin meant to evoke Macbeth or not, the books author, Giles Foden, definitely saw the parallels between Shakespearean and contemporary megalomania.12D: You may know this portmanteau, DIGERATI; its been around for over 25 years and its birth is commonly attributed to a Times article where it just nonchalantly appeared.26D: Clever bit of misdirection, here. Not just clever folks can have a focus in mathematics; every PARABOLA has one  it pairs itself with a directrix to determine the points on the line.34: A much-used bit of crosswordese in an otherwise very clean grid (notwithstanding ENO), KOA stands for Kampgrounds of America, which, to me, takes on a sinister feel from that K that they claim is there for design and distinction. Whatever, enjoy, just be kareful at these kampgrounds, O.K.?Constructor NotesThe long seed entry, 37A, was inspired by a scene near the end of the old Willy Wonka movie. Although, as I later learned Gene Wilder never actually says this line  he only says, Good day, sir! Its one of those Luke, I am your father, Play it again, Sam lines. Still a good entry though, in my opinion.I might have set a personal record with this puzzle for Most Submitted Clues Surviving Edit. Being 65 percent math nerd, Im particularly proud of the clues for 24-Across and 26-Down.The Friendly SherpaYou dont need a Golden Ticket to take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.What did you think?
