TUESDAY PUZZLE  Jacob Stulberg returns with a puzzle that might slow you down a bit every once in a while. I call those points where you have to stop and think about what you are doing speed bumps because the ideal solve is one where you can just cruise right through from start to finish.To be fair, there are speed bumps in every puzzle, and they differ for everyone based on our wheelhouses, dont they? But today  in certain places, at least  we will share those slowdowns.Before we talk about the puzzle, however, I wanted to share a fascinating Medium article by Ismail Ali Manik called How to Think Like an Astronaut. Mr. Maniks article pulls some of the ideas from Col. Chris Hadfields book An Astronauts Guide to Life on Earth, highlighting Colonel Hadfields opinions on why its important to be mentally flexible, as well as why your perspective when it comes to training for something is critical to your success. Colonel Hadfield even compares training for space travel to solving The New York Times Crossword:The secret is to try to enjoy it. I never viewed training as some onerous duty I had to carry out while praying fervently for another space mission. For me, the appeal was similar to that of a New York Times crossword puzzle: training is hard and fun and stretches my mind, so I feel good when I persevere and finish  and I also feel ready to do it all over again.So read the article, get yourself motivated, and then come back here and lets get solving.Tricky CluesThere is some tough stuff in here for a Tuesday, but it was all gettable if you worked the crossings. Im looking at you, NUEVO LEN, TONGA, ILYA Kovalchuk and Stanley ELKIN.I made my way into the puzzle with LISA Simpson, Mazel TOV!, OASIS, Edgar ALLAN Poe, CEVICHE and TONI Morrison. There were others that were easy, but those gave me the foothold I needed to really get going  at least until Mr. Stulberg got me to slow my roll.Todays ThemeMr. Stulberg offers us a set of four words inside the circled squares that are all types of local roads: AVENUE, LANE, STREET and DRIVE. They are each split between two Across entries, and the thing that splits it is a black square, or block.For example, 17A and 18A are SLAVE and NUEVO LEN. The circled squares highlight the word AVENUE, split after the third letter by the black square, like so:SLAVE  NUEVO LENWhy, I hear you asking, is AVENUE broken up by the black square, or block? Because its a ROADBLOCK, as the revealer at 64A tell us.Constructor NotesThe original version of todays puzzle contained TURNPIKE, hidden in UTURN and PIKES PEAK. Will suggested replacing those entries so that all four hidden answers would be local roads  hence DRIVE.I also originally clued STRING TIE as Attire for Colonel Sanders, hoping that a few solvers might enter WHITE SUIT.The Tipping PointAlmost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
