MONDAY PUZZLE  The last time we saw Julie Brub in The New York Times crossword, she was making her debut by singing an old yet familiar refrain.Today, her theme put a smile on my face by reminding me of a tough time in my life, and how I discovered that I was stronger and more capable than I realized. Even better, this lesson was learned because of something that came into my possession completely by chance. Maybe you have something like this, a gift that came to you out of nowhere that reminded you that you are strong and capable.So thank you for the reminder, Ms. Brub. More about this in the Theme section.Tricky Clues27A: I always find it funny when something that is nearly a half century old makes its debut in The New York Times Crossword. Today, the 1972 Allman Brothers Band album EAT A PEACH makes its first appearance.61A: Now heres a debut I can get behind. TUNA SASHIMI is awesome, although Im more of a salmon person myself.67A: One always making adjustments on the job? is a TAILOR, because they are always taking in a seam here and a tuck there.Todays ThemeMs. Brubs grid is transformed into a TOOLBOX, and the circled squares spell out the tools in the box. Very clever. Lots of great fill, like ESPADRILLES, TUNA SASHIMI and GORGONZOLA abutting ALVIN AILEY.And very meaningful, at least to me.This is a story that bubbled up for me when I solved Ms. Brubs puzzle. Im sharing it because I like to take the opportunity to remind everyone that crosswords can bring up more for people than just what is on the surface of a two-dimensional grid.In midlife, my marriage fell apart, with all that entails. Those of you who have been through divorce know that this is a much longer story, but Ill skip to the relevant part. When the custody agreements were in place, the possessions divided and the general dust that can pervade a long-term marriage settled, I found myself in charge of a house and very little idea of how to take care of it. It had been my ex-husbands job to fix things and to put together the Ikea furniture. He kept the bolts of our life together tightened, until he didnt anymore.I was scared beyond belief, and the fact that I didnt know how to keep up the shelter for myself and my children made me feel as if I had somehow failed at something. Its easy to think, well, there are a lot of places where you could have learned this stuff, Deb, but trust me when I say that I was overwhelmed. Im pretty sure its not an uncommon feeling for women of a certain age who suddenly find themselves on their own.My friends helped by getting me out of the house. One night, they took me to a tricky tray auction held at one of the local schools. I numbly scattered my tickets among a variety of prizes, expecting very little. The purpose of the night out was to avoid wallowing in self-pity, not to win anything.And then they called out my number. With visions of salon makeovers or massages dancing in my head, I was confused when the hostesses dropped my prize on the table in front of me. It was a small, black TOOLBOX. I had no memory of putting a ticket down for that.While the evening wore on, I opened the box and gazed at the pink-trimmed tools inside. Clearly, this was a message. It was time to fix my life.I took the toolbox home, and watched a number of home improvement videos (thank you, YouTube!). As I learned to fix things around the house, I noticed that my life got better. The hammer NAILed artwork to my walls, and my children and I were cheered. The SCREWdriver and the Allen wrenches (a complete set!) put together my childrens new furniture, and my children felt cared for.Most of all, their mother blossomed and she began to feel capable, and that made us all happy. An inexpensive toolbox that fell into my lap at a tricky tray auction helped us bolt our lives back together again.It means a lot to me, as you can tell. Because its more than just a toolbox. Its a symbol of my own growth. And with its shiny black tools with pink trim, its sexy as all get out.Constructor NotesI had been working on a puzzle with a musical theme, and my husband, helpful as always, had been suggesting all kinds of words that I just had to include. One was Oscar Hammerstein.Now, that puzzle was already very difficult to compose, with all kinds of constraints, so I just laughed. Its not that easy, you know, I told him. However, there was a hammer, just there.So, I put aside the musical idea and set to work on this toolbox puzzle  not that Oscar Hammerstein had any more luck making it into this puzzle than into the first one.The Tipping PointAlmost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
