Liesl Shurtliff writes the perfect middle-grade page-turners that fourth graders can gobble down on the plane, train and automobile trips ahead this summer. In GRUMP: The (Fairly) True Tale of Snow White and the Seven Dwarves (Knopf, 304 pp., $16.99; ages 8 to 12), the fourth installment of her fractured fairy tale series, she retrains the focus from Snow White onto the sagging shoulders of an outcast dwarf named Borlen. Grump, as hes known by his underground crew, longs for a life above the mines.ImageThe premise is rich: How does one survive, let alone smile, in a world he feels desperately bound to leave? At 52 years old (a tween in a dwarfs life cycle), Borlen is a worry to his parents and a whipping boy among his gem-crunching peers. The scenes of his marginalization are painful and true  always the pebble, never the geode in games of Pebble, Pebble, Geode. When he escapes to the forbidden Surface, and allies himself with Queen Elfrieda Veronika Ingrid Lenore (E.V.I.L.), Grump convinces himself hes finally living his best life. But then his new bud starts kidnapping babies and demanding the murder of her stepdaughter, Snow White, and hes back under a dark cloud.Shurtliff excels at turning familiar worlds on their heads. The underground dwarf culture is wonderfully realized, and Grumps fascination with the Surface well drawn. She might have had more fun digging deeper and more consistently into Grumps earned foul spirit. But her Snow White is fresh, a little snotty but highly capable, with far more grit than her Prince. Together, Grump and the Princess are a welcome reminder that heroes neednt be perfect to get the job done. In the first book in Adam Gidwitzs new series, UNICORN RESCUE SOCIETY: The Creature of the Pines (Dutton, 163 pp., $14.99; ages 7 to 10), admission into the highly exclusive Unicorn Rescue Society requires pledging allegiance to the existence and protection of all things mythical: unicorn, chupacabra, mermaid  the creatures young children want as pets yet forever feel denied. Its an easy, fun hook for readers, who will likely see themselves in either the nervous and pale new kid at school, Elliot, or edgy Uchenna, a black girl with twists who first strikes Elliot as a punk rock Beethoven.ImageOn a field trip into the New Jersey Pine Barrens, the two stumble on a tiny blue dragonlike creature tangled in a pink ribbon. They pacify him with an almond bar and try to keep him hidden from their foreboding social studies teacher, Professor Fauna, whos like a cross between Gandalf and Christopher Lloyds Doc Brown.Admittedly, theres a sense of throat-clearing to this series debut by Gidwitz (who won a Newbery Honor for The Inquisitors Tale). The blue Jersey devil mostly remains zipped up in Uchennas backpack, the villains hastily introduced and escaped from within a few pages, and the greater mission still unclear and ahead. Consider the book more a promise of grand adventures than one in the hand. But the rapport between nebbishy Elliot and impulsive Uchenna is already terrific, and the sight of a black girls natural hair on the cover of a mainstream middle-grade book the illustrations are by Hatem Aly  is something of a unicorn sighting itself.Oh, how odd and wonderful children will love a perfectly odd and wonderful little book by the acclaimed Scottish novelist A. L. Kennedy, UNCLE SHAWN AND BILL AND THE ALMOST ENTIRELY UNPLANNED ADVENTURE (Kane Miller, 191 pp., $5.99; ages 7 to 10). Kennedy lets loose a zany adventure in which a handsome badger is kidnapped by the miserable McGloone family, which keeps a cupboard of knives for every wretched occasion from peeling penguins to dicing goldfish. Also on the McGloone chopping block are four depressed llamas who are soon to be turned into llama puddings and dumplings and possibly even a handbag for the meaty matriarch Myrtle McGloone.ImageEveryones rescue depends on a crazy-haired, kindhearted uncle (whose uncle he is isnt revealed, because Kennedy delights in wordplay and wit, and appreciates the absurdity of unanswered questions) who has a faithful mole in one pocket of his tweed jacket and some cheese crackers in the other. Uncle Shawn has a half-baked plan to save the day, and hopes in the process to find himself the pleasure of new friends.The climax of escape is indeed a triumph, with the McGloones meeting an end befitting their outrageous terribleness. But the real fun here is the divinely cracked world Kennedy creates, matched nicely with Gemma Corrells very funny illustrations. Yes, please, to the villainous McGloone sisters and their eyes like old, bad eggs and thick, greasy, left-over-sausage kind of lips. And to the nasty McGloone children named Fred, Dusty, Bettina, Socket Wrench and Small. And to random asides on matters like Things That Make a Wasp Giggle.Kennedys ability to uncork all this cockamamie and turn it into an artful, and quite dear, breeze of a tale is a delight. Why shouldnt a badger who likes to snack on hot chocolate and lettuce sandwiches become best friends with a lonely and heroic grown man?Theres a great respectful nod to E.T. in BOB (Feiwel and Friends, 208 pp., $16.99; ages 7 to 10), the first joint effort of the powerhouse middle-grade authors Wendy Mass (the Twice Upon a Time series) and Rebecca Stead (When You Reach Me). A guileless green creature named Bob  who knows for sure that hes not a zombie, and is only pretending at being a chicken in his badly patched-together suit  lives in the attic of an old womans house in the drought-ridden Australian outback. When 10-year-old Livy returns to visit her Gran after a five-year absence Bob is thrilled, if a little miffed, to be reunited with his only friend.ImageYoure back. Took you long enough, he tells a stunned Livy, whos completely forgotten about her not-zombie friend. And hes quite unimpressed with how shes aged into a stammering, befuddled tween. Livy was the kind of 5-year-old who could get things done.The chapters are told alternately from their points of view. Livy and Bob struggle to piece together just who and what Bob is, how he ended up in Grans closet, and if theres any hope of him ever returning home. The heart of this wistful book comes from the loss of memories: Livys of their younger friendship, and Bobs of his former life. How does one hang on to the innocence and wonder of childhood when the world conspires to drum it out of us?But these friends do find tethers to their forgotten selves  Livy a black chess piece that she keeps in her pocket to remind her of Bobs existence in the world, and Bob a copy of Fairy and Folk Tales From A to Z that proves he too has a past that claims him. The storys momentum flounders occasionally, with a little too much of Bob spinning in circles waiting on Livy and a couple of wooden plot machinations, but the ending is pure enchantment. Its the type of satisfying closure that makes a reader want to turn right back to Page 1 now that she knows how the whole puzzle fits together.Its heros work trying to find ones inner child. It takes Livy a little green dude whos counted to 9,876,543,210 many times in her absence.
