In the National Hockey League, players can get penalized for butt-ending, spearing, kneeing, high-sticking and other acts of roughhousing.Until this past weekend, Brad Marchand of the Boston Bruins had apparently managed to get away with licking.Marchand, the Bruins left wing, got into a tussle with Tampa Bay Lightning right wing Ryan Callahan on Friday  and videos appear to show him running his tongue along Callahans face.Well, he punched me four times in the face, so, you know, he just kept getting close, Marchand said of Callahan, according to ESPN.Marchand is described in his official team biography as antagonistic and irritating and is nicknamed Little Ball of Hate. He is among the leagues most penalized players and has been repeatedly suspended or fined throughout his career.So perhaps it should not be shocking to learn that Marchand has done this before. Once again, video from last month appears to show Marchand nibbling at the cheek and neck of Toronto Maple Leafs center Leo Komarov.(The move marked something of an escalation for Marchand, who apparently tried to kiss Komarov on the cheek during a game last year. For a full history of Marchands antics, USA Today has created this helpful guide.)Anyway, the N.H.L. has finally had enough.On Saturday, the league said in a tweet that it had put Marchand on notice that his actions were unacceptable and similar behavior in the future will be dealt with by way of supplemental discipline.Marchand responded on Sunday in an interview with NBC.It is what it is. I think its pretty stupid, the whole situation, he said. But if thats what they want to do, then thats what they want to do.The N.H.L.s statement was likely welcomed by Callahan, who had expressed displeasure about the episode after the game.I dont know what the difference is between spitting in someones face and licking it, Callahan said.Marchands coach, Bruce Cassidy, said on Sunday that he had instructed his player to zip it, ESPN reported.Cassidy said he understood that Marchands moves were an attempt to get under his opponents skin. But he said he had urged him to find another way.Marchand led the Bruins in points during the regular season, and his coach suggested he might more effectively annoy opponents by scoring some goals.Athletes, though, have long invented creative ways to rattle their opponents.The former N.B.A. center Dikembe Mutombo was known to wag his finger at an opposing player after blocking his shot.Lance Stephenson famously blew in LeBron Jamess ear during the 2014 Eastern Conference Finals.And Luis Suarez, a Uruguyan soccer player, has on three occasions bitten an opponent, a habit he once defended as relatively harmless.Marchand, it turns out, will have the entire off-season to mull a new tactic.He and the Bruins fell to the Lightning, 3-1, on Sunday and were eliminated from the Stanley Cup playoffs. The Associated Press reported there was no licking during the game.On Monday, Marchand tweeted what appeared to be a simple response to the uproar.
