A court ruling in California could affect a lawsuit filed by minor-league baseball players seeking a new wage structure and millions of dollars in back pay from Major League Baseball.The unanimous ruling in the California Supreme Court on Tuesday required that Dynamex Operations West treat its delivery drivers as employees rather than independent contractors. That means they are entitled to all the protections given to employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act, including minimum wage and overtime payments.On the surface, the plight of delivery drivers doesnt seem to relate to minor league ball players; they are, after all, already considered salaried employees and not independent contractors.But in their ruling, the judges defined work according to the so-called ABC test, a broad standard that could also be applied to the players and enable them to be paid back for spring training, off-season workouts and overtime. Minor leaguers currently are paid only during the regular season, sometimes as little as $5,500 in an entire season.The California Supreme Court adopted a definition of work that is good for us, said Bruce Simon, one of the lawyers representing the players. That part is positive.Simon represents a group of players suing M.L.B. to be treated as hourly employees rather than exempted salaried employees who have fewer protections, as is the case now.The California ruling adopted the Industrial Welfare Commissions definition of work, which states that to employ means to engage, suffer or permit work.That broad definition, Simon said, should be applied to the players because their routines in spring training and the off-season  including practices, games and conditioning sessions  certainly classify as work, at least in California.There are hours before a game when they are required to be at the stadium, and that should be considered as part of the work, as well, Simon said.Baseball considers minor league players to be seasonal apprentices, similar to musicians, artists and actors who accept low pay for a temporary period while attempting to break into the big time. M.L.B. teams sometimes pay the players less than $1,500 per month, but only for a six-month period  less than the federal minimum wage. They were previously allowed to do that because of two exemptions to the minimum wage act, one for seasonal workers and the other for creative professionals.But M.L.B. was recently granted its own exemption in an amendment included in the $1.3 trillion federal spending bill, after baseball lobbied Congress for it. President Trump signed the bill on March 23. The amendment exempts minor league players and strips them of certain federal minimum wage protections.That essentially nullifies the players lawsuit from that date forward. The original suit was filed in 2014 in U.S. District Court in San Francisco by three players who claimed that M.L.B. teams violated the Fair Labor Standards Act, including minimum wage and overtime requirements for a workweek (the plaintiffs are also seeking to be categorized as a class in order to include hundreds of more players).Both sides were recently asked by the court how the new federal law would impact their case, and M.L.B. acknowledged that the law was not retroactive. The players are seeking damages from the beginning of their employment until the enactment of the new federal law.The players estimate they work 50 to 60 hours per week during the regular season, and they do not get paid at all in spring training or the off-season. Major league teams also pay large signing bonuses to many, though not all, minor leaguers. According to M.L.B.s 2016 figures, about 1,850 players received bonuses of at least $50,000 (for a total of about $440 million), which are paid out over two seasons.Baseball, in its recent brief to the court, noted that the new exemption means it doesnt have to pay players for each hour they are engaged in baseball related activities outside of games  weight lifting, batting practice, playing catch, etc., throughout the year.Payment of this minimum weekly salary during the championship season qualifies a player for the federal exemption regardless of how many hours he spends engaged in baseball related activities at any time during the calendar year, the brief said.Minor league players, unlike their major-league brethren, are not unionized and do not have unifying representation to bargain with the M.L.B. teams.
