LONDON  Liverpool must win one of their final two Premier League games to guarantee a top-four finish and travel to Stamford Bridge on Sunday to face Chelsea, who are hoping to gatecrash the Champions League places.Fifth-placed Chelseas hopes of qualifying for the Champions League are hanging by a thread. They sit six points adrift of Liverpool in third, with one game in hand. Antonio Conte\'s side are also five points adrift of Tottenham Hotspur in fourth.Here is what the fans have to say about their respective clubs:David Chidgey, Chelsea Supporters TrustWhile there is still hope that we might catch Liverpool, albeit a very slim chance, this is a massive match for Chelsea. Over the years a lot of enmity has arisen in the rivalry between the two clubs so any Chelsea versus Liverpool match has a lot riding on it. We never want to lose to them and any chance to get one over on them should never be spurned."This is a very difficult one to predict. If Antonio Conte can gee the team up and make them realise there is a still a chance of sneaking into the top four then we can get a win. After all, there are FA Cup places up for grabs, too, so the players should be even more motivated."Liverpool may have one eye on the Champions League final and perhaps will be mentally and emotionally fatigued after beating Roma (on aggregate) in midweek so hopefully they wont be at their best. Juergen Klopp may also rest a few players.Ive given up predicting Chelsea results this season because you never know which team will turn up. If they turn up and are at their best they are more than capable of beating Liverpool."I think the mid-season negativity and poor form has adversely affected the mood amongst Chelsea fans and many do seem less than satisfied. The trouble is that Chelsea fans have got used to winning league titles and cups so anything less leads to disappointment. The one thing that grates the most and will no doubt be remembered long after this season ends, is the fact that we lost our 28-year home unbeaten run against Spurs."Peter Phillips, host of The Kop Table podcastThis will be a difficult game against Chelsea on Sunday, but after securing a place in the Champions league final we will be full of confidence. Everyone will be playing for their place in Kiev, so it gives the players that extra incentive going into this fixture.I am predicting a 2-2 score draw. Liverpool need a point to guarantee a place in the Champions League next season. We must win the battle in midfield to get something out of this game."The players will have had four days between the semi-final in Rome and our trip to West London, so that should be ample time to recover."I think Chelsea will struggle to keep Mohamed Salah quiet. Salah has been world class for Liverpool this season and is proving to be the most influential player at the club in this campaign. On his day he can tear teams apart and his goal scoring record is second to none. Chelsea will need to be strong in defence to have any chance of stopping him.Expectations are always very high at Liverpool but Juergen Klopp has done exactly what he said he would at the start of his tenure. He told supporters that we need to turn "doubters into believers" and he has certainly done that.Next season Liverpool will be fighting in four competitions for silverware and with some smart recruitment in the summer Im sure Klopp will take the club on to more finals and win that all-important Premier League title. (Editing by Toby Davis)
