DOVER, Del.  The Latest on NASCAR's race at Dover International Speedway (all times local):6:15 p.m.Kevin Harvick dominated a race interrupted by rain and drove to his Cup Series-high fourth victory of the season Sunday at Dover International Speedway.Harvick reeled off three straight wins at Atlanta, Las Vegas and Phoenix earlier this season and now has the 60-pound Miles the Monster trophy to add to his collection.Harvick swept the first two stages and easily chased down Stewart-Haas Racing teammate Clint Bowyer in the third for the lead after a 41-minute delay. Bowyer had asked for a rain dance when the race was stopped with 80 laps left.Once it resumed, Harvick waltzed his way into victory lane in the No. 4 Ford.Harvick's 41st career Cup victory gives him a stout nine top-10 finishes and eight top-fives in 11 starts this season.Bowyer was second. Daniel Suarez, Martin Truex Jr., and Kurt Busch rounded out the top five.SHR had three cars in the top five with Harvick, Bowyer and Busch.____5:40 p.m.The rain has stopped and the race has resumed at Dover International Speedway.Clint Bowyer has the lead with 80 laps left and Stewart-Haas Racing teammate Kevin Harvick is second. Harvick won the first two stages.Bowyer, Harvick and Ricky Stenhouse Jr. chatted on pit road for a few minutes as they waited out the rain delay.___5 p.m.The NASCAR race at Dover International Speedway has been delayed because of rain.Clint Bowyer had the lead with 80 laps left when the cars were brought to pit road and covered in tarps. The drivers were allowed to get out of their cars.Kevin Harvick, who won the first two stages, is second and Joey Logano is third.Bowyer won this season at Martinsville to snap a 190-race losing streak dating to 2012.___4 p.m.Kevin Harvick has swept the first two stages at Dover International Speedway.It's the fourth time this season that he's swept the first two stages.The Stewart-Haas Racing driver is going for his fourth win of the season.___3 p.m.Kevin Harvick has won the opening stage at Dover International Speedway.Harvick has five stage wins this season.___2 p.m.Pole sitter Kyle Larson has been sent to the back of the field at Dover International Speedway because his No. 42 Chevrolet failed pre-race inspection three times. Larson had won his fifth career pole and was a heavy favorite Sunday on the strength of two runner-up finishes at the track.Alex Bowman and Austin Dillon also are going to the rear because of inspection issues with their cars. Larson and Bowman lost their car chiefs, and both teams were docked 30 minutes of practice next week at Kansas Speedway.Jimmie Johnson starts 19th as he tries to snap a career-worst losing streak of 33 races. His last win came last year at Dover, where he's won a track-record 11 times.___More AP auto racing: https://racing.ap.org
