LOUISVILLE, Ky.  The horses for the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby are listed in order of post position, with comments by Joe Drape and Melissa Hoppert of The New York Times. The morning-line odds were set by Mike Battaglia of Churchill Downs.[Follow our live coverage of the Kentucky Derby from Louisville here.]How to watch: The race doesnt begin until 6:46 p.m. Eastern, but NBCs broadcast starts at 2:30 p.m.Coverage will also be streamed on NBC Sports Live.Post time: 6:46 p.m. EasternPurse: $2 million guaranteedDistance: 1 milesTrack record: 1:59 2/5 (Secretariat, 1973)Weight: 126 poundsOur PicksJoe Drapes win-place-show picks: Bolt dOro, My Boy Jack, Noble IndyMelissa Hopperts picks: Good Magic, Justify, HofburgHeres how we see the field:1. Firenze FireTrainer: Jason Servis Jockey: Paco Lopez Odds: 50-1Drape: An awful post for a horse that has been overmatched all year.Hoppert: Sure, he beat Good Magic in 2017, but his last victory came at Aqueduct in January. Plus, that post. Pass.2. Free Drop BillyTrainer: Dale Romans Jockey: Robby Albarado Odds: 30-1Drape: This late runner looked promising as a 2-year-old, but he has failed to move forward.Hoppert: His last victory came in 2017. Hes going the wrong way.3. Promises FulfilledTrainer: Dale Romans Jockey: Corey Lanerie Odds: 30-1Drape: You will see him in front early and nowhere late.Hoppert: He pulled an upset in the Fountain of Youth but then finished ninth in the Florida Derby.4. FlameawayTrainer: Mark Casse Jockey: Jose Lezcano Odds: 30-1Drape: A gritty colt who has won on dirt, grass and synthetic surfaces. Hes going to win a lot of races, but not this one.Hoppert: Hes hit the board in seven of nine starts. But this field is deep.5. AudibleTrainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Javier Castellano Odds: 8-1Drape: His Florida Derby victory was eye-catching, and he has worked well in Kentucky. Dont leave out.Hoppert: Post 5 has produced the most Derby winners, with an 11.4 win percentage. The last? Pletchers Always Dreaming. Hard to bet against that, but work done on his front hooves makes me pause.6. Good MagicTrainer: Chad Brown Jockey: Jose Ortiz Odds: 12-1Drape: Theres too much chatter about how good last years 2-year-old champion is looking. Those juicy odds may drop precipitously.Hoppert: The Breeders Cup Juvenile winner has been working lights out here, which has his normally stoic trainer smiling from ear to ear. Hopefully at a nice price, thats good enough magic for me.7. JustifyTrainer: Bob Baffert Jockey: Mike Smith Odds: 3-1Drape: This talented colt is trying to do what Bodemeister, Curlin and others have not been able to do since 1882: Win the Derby without racing at 2. Ill take history.Hoppert: The favorite has won the past five Derbys, but the Santa Anita Derby winner has Apollos curse looming over him. Then again, as has been overheard many times this week, he could just be a freak.8. Lone SailorTrainer: Tom Amoss Jockey: James Graham Odds: 50-1Drape: This closer might just clunk up for third or fourth place.Hoppert: The Louisiana Derby runner-up is light on wins (one in eight starts), but he has been drawing some buzz in the mornings.9. HofburgTrainer: Bill Mott Jockey: Irad Ortiz Jr. Odds: 20-1Drape: Neither owner nor trainer are the kind to push a lightly raced colt like this one into this deep of water unless he was talented.Hoppert: A long-shot with plenty of upside: a Hall of Fame trainer, blueblood connections in Juddmonte, a second-place showing in a top prep, the Florida Derby, and solid efforts during training.10. My Boy JackTrainer: Keith Desormeaux Jockey: Kent Desormeaux Odds: 30-1Drape: My boy is named Jack. In 2005, three months after he was born, Giacomo won the Derby at 50-1. From this post. I will not make that mistake again.Hoppert: I knew Drape would have a special place in his heart for the third-place finisher in the Louisiana Derby. He has 10 starts, most among a somewhat inexperienced but extremely talented field, but hes overmatched.11. Bolt dOroTrainer: Mick Ruiz Jockey: Victor Espinoza Odds: 8-1Drape: He is fast, seasoned and has never run a bad race. He is sitting on a big one. Oh yeah, Espinoza has won this race three times. Heres your winner.Hoppert: He did not give up in the Santa Anita Derby, and Im not ready to count him out either, especially with Espinoza aboard. He will likely be a nice price, too.12. EnticedTrainer: Kieran McLaughlin Jockey: Junior Alvarado Odds: 30-1Drape: Im not. Pass.Hoppert: Remember him? He won the Gotham and had people talking, then he finished behind Vino Rosso in the Wood Memorial.13. BravazoTrainer: D. Wayne Lukas Jockey: Luis Contreras Odds: 50-1Drape: Like a few in here, this colt is best running in front. He is going to have a lot of company.Hoppert: Would love to see Lukas, 82, win another Derby, especially for a farm as historic as Calumet, but it wont be this one.14. MendelssohnTrainer: Aidan OBrien Jockey: Ryan Moore Odds: 5-1Drape: The European invader by way of Dubai is the most interesting import in the history of the Derby. English and Irish punters will pound him at the betting windows. I will not.Hoppert: He absolutely romped in the U.A.E. Derby, winning by 18 1/2 lengths and setting a track record, in his first start on dirt no less. He has a world-class trainer and jockey, but he just arrived Monday, and the overseas trip will surely take a toll.15. Instilled RegardTrainer: Jerry Hollendorfer Jockey: Drayden Van Dyke Odds: 50-1Drape: It is hard to find anything to like about this one.Hoppert: Another horse who is going the wrong way: His last victory was in January, and his speed figures have flattened.16. Magnum MoonTrainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Luis Saez Odds: 6-1Drape: Like Justify, he did not run at 2. If he beats me, he beats me.Hoppert: Undefeated in four starts, hes definitely dangerous, but Im not crazy about him drifting wide in the stretch in the Arkansas Derby and, you know, the Apollo Curse.17. SolominiTrainer: Bob Baffert Jockey: Flavien Prat Odds: 30-1Drape: Like Flameaway, a tough competitor with a bright future. Dont see a blanket of roses in it, though.Hoppert: Hes hit the board in all six of his races, but he drew the 17 hole, from which no horse has won, and he doesnt seem fast enough to compete against this bunch.18. Vino RossoTrainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: John Velazquez Odds: 12-1Drape: He needed a weak field in the Wood Memorial to win as a 3-year-old.Hoppert: He seems to be peaking at the right time, and I do put stock in last years Derby-winning jockey picking him over Audible. But that was also before he drew this post.19. Noble IndyTrainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Florent Geroux Odds: 30-1Drape: This colt has been unjustly overlooked. If the Frenchman can get a clean break, this duo might just wire the field.Hoppert: The Louisiana Derby winner is the speediest of the Pletcher bunch, but with that post, he must have a clean break and be able to cut over quickly. Thats a tall task.20. CombatantTrainer: Steve Asmussen Jockey: Ricardo Santana Jr. Odds: 50-1Drape: This colt has won once in eight starts. Not sure why he is here.Hoppert: One horse has won from the 20 hole, and that was Big Brown in 2008. Combatant is no Big Brown.
