BOSTON  The path through the N.B.A. playoffs is not a straight line. It is littered with long-limbed defenders and hostile crowds, with disastrous shooting nights and savvy opponents.Terry Rozier, a third-year point guard for the Boston Celtics, already knew as much. Ben Simmons, one piece of the Philadelphia 76ers wunderkind collective, is still figuring it out.Were learning, Simmons said late Thursday night as he tried to pry himself loose from the gloom of another postseason loss.The Celtics have a two-games-to-none lead against the 76ers in their Eastern Conference semifinal series, with Game 3 scheduled for Saturday in Philadelphia. The 76ers are glad to be heading home after a trying stretch in Boston, where the Celtics  whose coach, Brad Stevens, has worked basketball sorcery on an injury-ravaged roster  showed no signs of letting up.At his postgame news conference, Rozier looked positively resplendent in a jean jacket with a leopard-print collar. Not to be outdone, the first-year forward Jayson Tatum wore a button-down shirt with a pink flower pattern. The Celtics, who few thought would be in this position, two wins from the conference finals, seem to be enjoying the experience.Once we got on that run, we never looked back, Rozier said.He was referring to a sizable stretch of Game 2s second quarter when the Celtics, after trailing by as many as 22, bulldozed the 76ers in transition. Rozier wound up finishing with 20 points and 9 assists in the Celtics 108-103 victory. His performance only amplified the struggles of Simmons, the opposing point guard, who essentially vanished: 1 point and 7 assists in 31 minutes.Im going to have bad games, Simmons said. It happens. Obviously, its not the perfect timing.Simmons is just 21, still playing his first full season in the N.B.A. and still the prohibitive favorite to be named the N.B.A.s rookie of the year. But for all his gifts, there is no substitute for experience, a lesson that Rozier has reinforced through the first two games of this series.By suffocating Simmons with playoff-tested defenders, and by choking off his passing lanes, the Celtics have reminded Simmons that he would benefit from developing some semblance of an outside shot this off-season. He will have time to hone one  though not soon enough, perhaps, to salvage the series for Philadelphia.Not saying he cant score, Rozier said, but he wants to pass. We take that away, we feel pretty good about it.These are heady times for Rozier, a 2015 first-round draft pick for the Celtics who was a backup not so long ago. But after Kyrie Irving had season-ending knee surgery, Rozier moved into the starting lineup. He was solid if not spectacular in his final 13 appearances of the regular season, averaging 14.7 points and 5 assists a game while shooting 36.5 percent from the field.But Rozier feeds off emotion, and he has fashioned the first few weeks of the playoffs into his personal stage. Remember Act I? Rozier mistakenly referred to the Milwaukee Bucks Eric Bledsoe as Drew Bledsoe after Game 1 of their first-round series. By way of response, Bledsoe pretended not to know Roziers name. (Drew Bledsoe is a former quarterback for the New England Patriots.)Rozier just happened to be in the process of eviscerating Eric Bledsoe, a feud he punctuated by scoring 26 points in the Celtics series-clinching victory.At the same time, an unexpected bromance blossomed  between Rozier and the real Drew Bledsoe. Earlier this week, ahead of Game 1 against the 76ers, Rozier wore a throwback Bledsoe jersey to the arena. Before Game 2, Bledsoe posted a photo of himself wearing a Rozier T-shirt on social media along with words of encouragement.In the playoffs, Rozier is averaging 19.1 points, 6.9 assists and 5 rebounds a game while shooting 44.1 percent from the field.He already had a belief, Stevens said. But you build a consistency in that role so its not as new to him anymore. Weve always believed in him.Simmons is not having nearly as much fun. On Thursday, the Celtics threw waves of defenders at him. Al Horford, Marcus Morris and Marcus Smart all took turns, stifling Simmonss ability to drive toward the basket. The 76ers had much more success in the second half with the reserve T. J. McConnell at point guard  McConnell was ridiculous, Stevens said  but Sixers Coach Brett Brown opted to go with Simmons in the final minutes.Its a tough decision, I admit it, Brown said. This whole playoff experience is something that I want our young guys and our star players to learn from and grow.Referring to Simmons, Brown added: I think hes going to have to learn to play in these environments.For his part, Simmons sounded almost dismissive of Bostons brand of physicality, saying it paled in comparison with how the Miami Heat had tried to manhandle him in the first round. He blamed himself for his struggles. He said he was thinking too much rather than letting his game flow.I think it was self-inflicted, Simmons said.The whole trope of bulletin-board material is overstated, especially in the postseason. These are professionals, after all. But it is nave, maybe, to think that the Celtics will not perceive Simmonss postgame comments as another challenge, as additional fuel to throw on the fire. Simmonss job was already tough enough.
