PITTSBURGH  Jake Guentzel scored twice to push his league-leading playoff total to 10, Matt Murray stopped 20 shots and the Pittsburgh Penguins beat the Washington Capitals, 3-1, in Game 4 to even their tense Eastern Conference semifinal on Thursday night at two games each.Evgeni Malkin added his fourth goal of the playoffs for Pittsburgh, which rebounded after a chaotic Game 3 that included an illegal hit by Washington forward Tom Wilson that led to a three-game suspension.T.J. Oshie scored for the Capitals, but Washington struggled to find much operating room. Alex Ovechkin failed to register a shot on goal for just the third time in 107 career playoff games. Braden Holtby finished with 21 saves but couldnt quite get a handle on Malkins shot late in the second period that put Pittsburgh in front to stay.Game 5 is Saturday night in Washington.The Capitals grabbed brief control of the series amid all of the Game 3 chippiness, much of it fueled by Wilson, when Ovechkin baseball-batted home the winning goal with just over a minute to play. True playoff momentum for Washington, however, has been problematic for decades. The franchise is 6-11 in series in which it led 2-1 after three games, the worst mark in N.H.L. history.PREDATORS 2, JETS 1 Pekka Rinne stopped 32 shots as visiting Nashville stifled Winnipeg and evened their Western Conference semifinal at two games each with a win at Bell MTS Place.Ryan Hartman and P.K. Subban scored the goals for Nashville, which gave up 15 goals in the series first three games. However, the Predators used changes in personnel and adopted a more defensive style to keep the explosive Jets shackled.Cutting down on turnovers while providing more consistent puck support, the Predators steered Winnipeg away from the middle of the ice and forced the Jets to settle mostly for shots from long range. The insertion of the veteran forward Scott Hartnell and defenseman Yannick Weber also provided a blend of physical play and better neutral-zone play.The Jets nearly scored the first goal, but a scrambling Rinne used the knob of his stick to deny a rebound chance from Josh Morrissey at the left post. Later in the first period, Rinne made a quick lateral move to the left post and smothered a wrist shot from Patrik Laine.Hartman put Nashville ahead for good at 17:20 of the opening period by roofing a point-blank wrist shot over goalie Connor Hellebuyck for his second goal of the playoffs. Hartman also notched the game-winner when the Predators edged Winnipeg 6-5 on Feb. 27, the last time the Jets lost at home.Subban tallied his third of the series on the power play at 14:36 of the second period. Filip Forsberg teed him up between the circles for a one-timer through a Viktor Arvidsson jump screen. It was Subbans fifth point in the past three games.Laine got the Jets on the board with Subban in the box at 19:09 of the third period by squeezing a shot from the left circle through Rinnes pads, but Winnipeg couldnt equalize.Hellebuyck finished with 27 saves.Game 5 is scheduled for Saturday night in Nashville. (Field Level Media)
