Good morning. I spent some time with the chef Angie Mar recently, skulking around her kitchen at the Beatrice Inn in Manhattan as she cooked a fine dinner of pan-roasted chicken with morels in a Madeira-spiked cream sauce flecked with savory and tarragon (above). I wrote about it for The Times this week. I think it looks pretty fancy!But it isnt, really. The recipe is just a simple chicken dinner enlivened with flavors that you may not have in your pantry but sure could have, and maybe ought to have, for occasional use: Cognac, for instance, to flame the mushrooms; that Madeira wine.These last forever in a cupboard or on a bar. Use them four times a year and youll thank me every time, or Ill take my Borsalino and make it into stew.So cook that chicken for dinner this weekend, using whatever mushrooms you can find at the market, and serve it with rice and buttered peas, and drink a pinot noir. The dish looks and tastes sophisticated, and is in the shopping and flaming maybe a little more restauranty than what you usually cook. But remember that its also just smothered chicken of the same sort that Craig Claibornes mom cooked for him back in Mississippi  a dish that belongs in the comfort category, he wrote in 1983, a food that gives solace to the spirit when you dine on it.Thats still true here. And man is it delicious.Tomorrow is Cinco de Mayo, and if thats a minor holiday in Mexico (a celebration of the 1862 victory over the French at the Battle of Puebla, in the Franco-Mexican War), its big business in the United States, an occasion to celebrate Mexican culture and naturally to cook and drink. Of course we have a collection of festive recipes for you to try.(Jammed for time? We also put together a collection of festive and fast recipes to celebrate the day.)Down in Louisville, Ky., it will be Derby Day more than Cinco de Mayo; it will be Derby Day wherever those who like horses and bourbon and hats and adrenaline gather to observe the most exciting two minutes in sports. Here is a collection of Derby recipes appropriate to the hours before and after the race, and of course a receipt for a mint julep, as well.If you overindulge in those, or in a few too many margaritas, you can greet Sunday with Alison Romans recipe for a bacon, egg and cheese casserole, and then limp your way into dinner: white-bean stew with carrots, fennel and peas, say, or a one-pot spaghetti with cherry tomatoes and kale.Youll find many more recipes than you could ever cook this weekend or in a year of them on NYT Cooking. Yes, you will need to sign up for a subscription so you can access them. Weve talked about that before in this space, about how we offer a lot of features on the site and apps in return for your support, tools to help you save and organize your recipes, to send yourself grocery lists, to share your knowledge, to cook better and more often.So join us! Or bark at me about how Im wrong, how Stewart Brand had it right, information wants to be free and you dont like this newsletter either: foodeditor@nytimes.com. Ill try to convince you, even as you pound on me with brickbats.If you need help with something technical, though, or if youre having problems with a particular recipe  I am probably not your man. Try our Care team instead: cookingcare@nytimes.com. They are just terrific.Now, about 300 miles from linguine, jalapeos and strawberry jam, I want to recommend to you a blog on The Timess site, At War. Blogs within newspapers, like newsletters sent out by section editors like me, are an old-school digital medium. Some people think them out of fashion. Theyre incorrect, as youve proved in your acceptance of What to Cook and as youll see when you start reading At War.Jake Tappers The Hellfire Club? I say, yes.And, finally, do read Lucian V. Truscott IV in Salon, on learning to cook in 1970s New York, back when he was a staff writer at The Village Voice. Nice to see The Times played a role! Have a great weekend.
