LOUISVILLE, Ky.  The inaugural European Road to the Kentucky Derby appeared to be paved with gold when Gronkowski became the first qualifier and Rob Gronkowski, the immensely popular tight end for the New England Patriots, took a financial interest in his namesake.Five days after the majority owner Phoenix Thoroughbreds announced that Gronkowski had bought in and would take his partying crew to Churchill Downs, there came a painful reminder of how problematic it can be to attempt to add international appeal to Americas premier race.Gronkowski  the horse  had developed a slight fever, would miss valuable training time and would be unable to make the 21-hour journey from Newmarket, England, to compete at the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby on Saturday. The announcement was doubly painful for track officials because the Japan Road to the Derby had again come up empty since it began two years ago. Owners, after weighing the high cost and extensive travel against their opportunity to win the $2 million race, concluded the Derby was not in their interests or those of their horses.Mike Ziegler, executive director of racing at Churchill Downs Inc., is undaunted. We knew all along it was going to take energy and time. It hasnt discouraged us whatsoever, he said. Its new for us, and were learning somewhat as we go. We are optimistic that our efforts are going to pay off at some period of time in the near future.The European road has seven races, and the Japan road has three. Points are awarded to the top four finishers in each race, and one starter is selected from each pool. Only the top four point-getters are eligible for consideration. Each series is separate from the 35-race Road to the Kentucky Derby that the track instituted five years ago.With improvements made in transporting horses spurring more international competition, Churchill Downs wants the Derby to be prominent in that movement. Its a top priority for us to grow the Kentucky Derby and the brand internationally, Ziegler said. Were putting a lot of effort into attracting a horse to come run with us as soon as we can.[READ MORE: Mendelssohn is a Kentucky Derby Contender, via Ireland]That goal created an unlikely tandem when Ziegler was joined by Martin Panza, senior vice president of racing operations for the New York Racing Association, on a recruiting mission to Japan in February. Ziegler sought a horse for the Derby, the opening leg of the Triple Crown, Panza was seeking one for the Belmont Stakes, the final leg. Both were attempting to tap into the worlds leader in wagering handle.In 2015, Japan changed its laws to allow Japanese fans to gamble on 24 internationally significant races, a move that increased wagering there to $22.5 billion. For the Prix de lArc de Triomphe, Japanese fans bet about $38 million, more on that one race than Frances handle on the entire Arc program.The Japanese government does not permit foreign races to be simulcast there without a starter from Japan, leading Ziegler and Panza to pack their bags. Their combined efforts were in vain, for reasons beyond anyones control.This year, it just didnt work out, Panza said. Their 3-year-old dirt horses probably werent strong enough to make it happen.Churchill Downs created an annual path for a Japan-based horse after Lani became only the second such starter in Derby history in 2016. He qualified by winning the U.A.E. Derby in Dubai, part of the Road to the Kentucky Derby available to all horses in their bid to advance to a field limited to 20. Lani finished ninth. His predecessor, Ski Captain, ran 14th in 1995.[READ MORE: Heres What You Need to Know About the Kentucky Derby]Lanis experience underscored some issues horses can face, although his experience might be extreme because of his high-strung personality. The temperamental colt did not react well to the tracks hustle and bustle in the days preceding the race and sometimes startled onlookers by exhibiting visually studdish behavior.The Derby week atmosphere was not preferred by Lani, said Keita Tanaka. We should have kept him somewhere else, quieter with fewer horses. Tanaka serves as racing manager for Koji Maeda, who owned Lani before retiring him. Lani was shipped to New York and housed in a boarded-up stall at Belmont Park after the Derby. He responded to those calmer, if dark, surroundings by running fifth in the 1 3/16-mile Preakness at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore and third in the 1 1/2-mile Belmont Stakes.According to Tanaka, Lanis experience was generally encouraging to thoroughbred owners in Japan. We may have some possibility to have a winner in either the Preakness or the Belmont, where fields are always smaller than the Derby, in the next few years, he said. But in the Derby, where the best 20 3-year-old horses gather every year, I must say it is extremely tough.The Derby represents the utmost challenge for any still-maturing thoroughbred, regardless of origin. History underscores, though, how much sterner that challenge can be when it begins with an exhausting trek to entirely unfamiliar surroundings.Thunder Snow won the U.A.E. Derby last year to advance to the Run for the Roses. The biggest race of his young career was over before it started. Perhaps undone by the combination of a raucous crowd, a large field and a sloppy track, he broke poorly and began bucking soon after leaving the starting gate. Jockey Christophe Soumillon received assistance from an outrider to bring his rattled mount under control. Thunder Snow went on to prove his quality when he won the Dubai World Cup on March 31, nearly a year after his monumental Derby failure.Nick Smith, director of racing and communications at Royal Ascot, the centerpiece of the English racing calendar, noted that American dirt horses are typically superior, in part because most of the rest of the world focuses on breeding and developing turf stars. He also pointed to a difference in racing styles.Smith said of success in the Derby: You need a good one who really handles the dirt and, importantly, can break. Europeans break in their own time usually and come through. In the States, its all about gate speed on dirt. The worry will always be that a lot of ours will find it all happening too quickly.Mendelssohn hopes to avoid that fate, not to mention that of Thunder Snow. He qualified as an 18 1/2-length winner of the U.A.E. Derby in track-record time at Meydan Racecourse and will try to become the first Europe-based starter to win the Derby.Whatever happens, Jeremy Noseda, 54, trainer of star-crossed Gronkowski, yearns to make up for a chance that slipped away. I hope that another opportunity arises before Im retired and got my feet up, he said.
