IT LOOKS LIKE the Island of the Dead as we approach it, rising like an angled furl of black rock from the steel-gray sea, the dark clouds sitting so low and heavy on its head that one fears theyre permanently positioned there, like an irremovable and burdensome crown. The journey to St. Kilda has not been easy. First, there were three consecutive days of last-minute boat cancellations as I sat in Portree on the Isle of Skye off the west coast of Scotland, around 250 miles northwest of Edinburgh, waiting for favorable weather conditions. They arrive, as if by magic, on the very last day that I can conceivably remain on the island before heading back home to London. Without that last-minute salvation, I would have had to return next summer to get to St. Kilda, which is another (nearly) hundred miles farther west. And the phrase favorable weather conditions here means something more obscure than the absence of driving rain. It depends on two things  wind speed, which is obvious enough once its pointed out, and sea swell, a surface state of water that dictates whether a boat can make landing at the bay in Hirta, the main island in the small archipelago of St. Kilda. It rains all morning as I take a taxi to Uig, the port from which boats depart to St. Kilda, and increases in intensity for the first three hours of the four-hour ride.The sea is choppy  the experience of riding it feels as if the boat is often being lifted up several stories high on a billow, then dashed down from that height onto concrete. Who would have thought that hitting water could be so rough? Our skipper, Derek Gordon, smiles coolly throughout, as if this is a leisurely walk in a manicured English garden on a balmy summer evening.The skippers assistant, also smiling, goes about the boat, distributing ginger candies for those who might need to quell their travel sickness. The route is outlined to us as we make our way out west: across a strait called the Minch into the Sound of Harris, which separates two islands of the Outer Hebrides, North Uist on the left, Harris and Lewis on the right. We are picking up a few more people from a tiny island called Berneray, next to North Uist. Im sitting right at the front  a calculation ingrained from childhood, probably misconceived, about distance from the driver and its correlation to motion sickness  so the dashboard sonar is only a few inches away from my face. On it I can see scores of lines, which, it is explained to me, are records of routes taken by the boat on its previous journeys.Read more: Where to Stay (and What to Eat) in the Scottish HebridesMy sense of perspective, never the sharpest, is now so out of whack that I fail each and every time I scour the map and try to relate its markings to the territories they represent in reality. Is that Pabbay? No, just a rock that has raised its head from under the water temporarily. O.K., surely that hulking landmass to the right must be Harris? No, its a tiny uninhabited island called Shillay.For significant stretches of the journey, not much can be seen through the water streaming down the windows. The sense of anticipation that we are being led to a place much like Eden, beautiful, pristine, almost impossible or at least very difficult to get to is dampened by the weather: Are we going to see anything through the scrim of rain and the pall of clouds? As we near St. Kilda, the islands look as if theyre deliquescing. Then the second piece of magic happens: The rain lets up, the low-hanging clouds begin to look, at their lower edges, like plumes of dense smoke, and the black rock of Hirta reveals itself to be the lushest shade of green.ST. KILDA, A Unesco World Heritage site owned by the National Trust for Scotland, is one of the outermost outposts of the British Isles: Beyond it to the west lies the North Atlantic in an unbroken stretch until Newfoundland. The main island, Hirta, was inhabited until 1930. Beyond the reconstructed main village, which is just a row of half a dozen houses, the island is dotted with scores of cleits, stone storage huts with turf roofs, that characterize the St. Kilda archipelago. The surrounding smaller islands of Soay, Dun and Boreray, and the several sea stacks in the straits between the islands, were never peopled, although they were used to graze sheep (soay means island of sheep in Old Norse) and provided the islanders with seabirds (and their eggs) for food. There are no trees  what can survive being buffeted by the North Atlantic winds from all sides year-round?  but the archipelago is the most important breeding site in northwest Europe for nearly a million seabirds each year, including gannets, petrels, puffins, skuas, fulmars, shearwaters and guillemots. Some numbers might assist in imagining the place: Hirta is about 2.5 square miles, but it has the highest sea cliffs in the United Kingdom (Conachair, the highest, is 1,400 feet).It is easy to see what attracted Michael Powell, the British director, to St. Kilda, which inspired his first major film, which he shot when he was 30, The Edge of the World (1937). Powell, born in 1905, is one of the very few great filmmakers that Britain has produced. He began his career assisting directors such as Alexander Korda and Alfred Hitchcock (who would remain his lifelong friend). Hired as a contract director by Kordas production company, London Films, Powell first met the screenwriter Emeric Pressburger on The Spy in Black (1939). They would soon set up a production team called the Archers that lasted until the late 1950s. The Powell-Pressburger partnership produced classics of midcentury British cinema such as The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp (1943), A Matter of Life and Death (1946), Black Narcissus (1947) and The Red Shoes (1948), among others. Their films are often deeply felt and deeply imbued with a magical sense of place. Filmmakers such as Martin Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola have cited Powell as an influence on their artistic careers.The Edge of the World, which Powell wrote and directed before meeting Pressburger, dramatizes as fiction the real-life events that led to the evacuation of Hirta. In 1928, the entire population of the island, never more than 200, had fallen to 37, half of what it had been eight years before. Disease, malnutrition, isolation, the attrition of daily life, the denuding of the island of peat (the main source of heating), crop failure from salt spray blowing in from the Atlantic  all contributed to its eventual abandonment. In 1930, the last remaining islanders were evacuated, at their own request, since their old way of life was no longer tenable, and were resettled on the mainland. Shooting a film on a windswept, rain-battered, remote Scottish island (Powell, in fact, did not get permission to film on St. Kilda, so he shot it on Foula, one of the Shetland Islands, about 250 miles northeast, instead) couldnt have been easy. The thought of the transportation of equipment and crew alone to the island makes my head swim. But the story of St. Kildas evacuation must have made the Hebrides too compelling an idea for Powell. Almost 10 years later, he ventured with Pressburger to the Isle of Mull, a more tractable place in the Inner Hebrides, to film I Know Where Im Going!The Edge of the World focuses on two families, the Mansons (Peter, the father, and Ruth and Robbie, his adult daughter and son) and the Grays (Andrew and his father, James). A simple oppositional dynamic is set up: All of Robbies energies are focused on leaving the island and its way of life, which he considers to be dying, for the bigger world (Norway, in this instance), while Andrew, his best friend and also Ruths fianc, is more ambivalent. Peter Manson remains implacably opposed to his sons outward-bound ambitions. The two friends take a bet on the subject: Whoever manages to scale the most difficult cliff first, without ropes, gets to have his way about the decision whether to leave or stay. Needless to say, tragedy ensues. All this is over by the first half, or less, of the film. The rest of the film works out the St. Kildan version of one of the oldest stories in the world: the decay of one unsustainable way of life and the surrender to another. But change is the only constant in our sublunary world, as writers down the centuries have noted; Powell, too, knew this well.The islanders were skilled climbers; their lives depended on it since the meat and eggs of seabirds were their main source of protein, and the birds nested and laid their eggs on precipitous and dangerous terrain. People hauled themselves up cliff faces using ropes, often a group of them tied to one another; children were ideal for this task because they were light. Tragedies were not uncommon. Here is Rev. Donald John Gilliess firsthand account of harvesting guillemots in spring 1918:This bird was found on Boreray, Stac Birroch, near the Island of Soay, [and] Stac an Armin. ... With the method used to catch this bird, you endeavoured to dress as close to the colour of the rock as humanly possible. You selected a ledge and laid on this ledge at night.... This was my first experience at this type of capturing the guillemot and I remember being a little scared. This bird would fly on to this ledge approximately an hour before dawn.If the idea of clinging to a ledge all night on Boreray appears to be daunting, how about this one of Gilliess father harvesting gannets on Stac Lee, a precipitous sea stack all of six acres in area, near Boreray?Landing on Stac Lee is not a very easy chore, however; the sea requires to be dead calm. There is a pin stuck to a rock and a rope has to be connected to this pin, then if one is successful in getting the rope around the pin, a man can jump to the ledge. This is the only way landing can be made on Stac Lee. In order to catch this bird, its at night.By the end of the film, both Robbie and his father have fallen to their deaths while climbing the precarious cliffs of Hirta. Peter, who originally opposed Robbies proposal to leave the island on his own terms at a village meeting, has stubbornly resisted the pressure to make a better, easier life away from the island. When the pressure ultimately becomes impossible to oppose, he relents, but at the last moment, decides to scale a cliff for a guillemot egg that he can sell to a collector. As he climbs, the rope frays and ultimately gives, resulting in the films final death, which is heavy with metaphorical weight: The old way of life has to give; its no longer viable. Despite the palpability of longing in his backward glance at the tough old way of life on the island, Powells sympathies lie with the newer order: The narrative depicts with economy and dramatic eloquence the ravages to which the islanders lives were prey. The combination of the breathtaking  and frequently bleak  beauty, that splendid and terrifying isolation, and the always already vivid theme of the inevitable death of an old order leading to the emergence of a new, would have proved irresistible to a young filmmaker. You feel that the potential for the visuals alone  so much shifting, restless drama of wind, sky, water, rock  could have been the deciding factor.SOME OF THE HOMES in the village on Hirta  all of one short street  have been restored, while others are falling into ruins. Behind the village are the most distinctive built structures  the cleits somewhat resemble igloos and have stone roofs covered with turf, with grass and moss growing on them. These green-topped huts look as if theyve strayed in from a Germanic fairy tale. They were built to store a whole range of things on which the islanders depended: grains, ropes, salted seabirds, cured fish, peat, seabirds eggs. There are some cleits, especially near the village, that look more or less intact  have they been touched up for tourists?  but most of them, dotted all over the island (there are about 1,400 on Hirta), are in various stages of ruination, some nothing more than a pile of stones which the grass is claiming in what will be eventually a victorious outcome for the vegetation.I climb the steep slope behind the main village to see what lies on the other side of the hill. It seems like the wettest, boggiest slope ever, with scores of crisscrossing rainwater runnels, turning everything into a churn of mud and sheep droppings. Often the most feasible way of walking from one point to another is not a straight line but a zigzagging, circuitous detour, because we dont want to be mired ankle-deep in mud. I turn back frequently to look at the sweeping curve of the bay, the houses becoming toylike with increasing distance. The stones of the disintegrating cleits begin to look naturally occurring, left by geological events rather than human intervention. The sun comes out and transforms the bay to a blinding mirror. I am led upward by the illusion that once I get to the visible top, theres going to be another ridge or hill, or at least a gradual decline into the sea. But when I reach my destination, it turns out to be the edge of a cliff between the two hills of Conachair and Oiseval; nothing prepares me for it falling sheer and vertical into the water separating Hirta from Borerary and its stacks. It is dizzying; you have to step back instantly from the edge. The stretch to Boreray is the blue of the sea in a childrens book. I am two weeks too late for the bird season, but at this distance, without binoculars, I wouldnt have been able to see the teeming colonies of northern gannets.A counterfactual: If the St. Kildans had had more help with communication services, presence of health care personnel on the island and other support with infrastructure, would the island still be inhabited today? The irony is that it is, and has been continuously for the last 60 years: The Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom has had a military base here since 1957. Now operated by the multinational defense contractor QinetiQ, the station is mainly used as a radar-tracking outpost. As the boat nears Village Bay, the only segment of the shore of Hirta conducive to landing, your eyes will reluctantly alight, after the spectacular bigger view, on the smaller detail of squat dark green prefab boxes crowding the harbor. These marring details accumulate. If the clouds lift enough, you will see the radar masts on the top of Mullach Mor. There is a road leading up to the radar station, on which I observe army trucks traveling up and down. Two helicopters land on and take off from a flattened portion just off the beach. There are low piles of construction materials strewn everywhere. It might be said that this blot is localized to one small section of the island near the jetty, although its the eye-level view as you arrive and the one thats spread out below as you climb down from one of the cliffs. But notice something: This blemish is artfully left out of most photos of the island, an artfulness you, too, as a visitor struggle to impose on your own pictures of the place. Of the 88 pictures I have from the day, I have been forced to allow some kind of truncated portion of the prefab-littered harbor to peek into a corner of only five pictures; forced because otherwise the bigger scenery could not have been captured. A lot of my photo-taking time there is spent moving my phone up, down and sideways to stop the structures from ruining the view.Is the impulse behind this a kind of purism or a kind of self-deception? After the sheer toil and uncertainty of the journey, and the battle with weather, why would you want to ruin your pictures of a far corner of paradise? For in the end, is this not a kind of collusion, too?
