For sale: 99 acres located 90 minutes from Montreal with 98,000 square feet of space spread over 30 buildings. Amenities include kitchens with walk-in freezers, a dining hall and a backup diesel generator.The property, a former New York prison called Chateaugay Correctional Facility, is being sold by the state at auction. Closed since 2014 because of declining incarceration rates, the former prison will be auctioned on July 24 at the Chateaugay Town Hall, almost exactly four years to the day after it closed. The minimum bid is $100,000.Theres no guarantee there will be a buyer for the prison, which opened in 1990. A previous effort by a warehouse distributor to buy the property fell through more than a year ago. While state officials hailed the closed prison as the product of efforts to reduce mass incarceration, local officials raised concerns about the effect on employment.We lost 101 good jobs when it closed, said Don Bilow, the supervisor of the town of Chateaugay, which is about 200 miles north of Albany. We hope a viable entity will buy it and create some economic activity.The medium-security prison is one of 13 that the state has closed since Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo took office in 2011. Since 1999, the states prison population has declined by 30 percent, to approximately 45,500 inmates.The decrease of 5,500 prison beds has saved the state $162 million per year, the governors chief counsel, Alphonso David, said on Saturday. The changes mean people are getting the help they need to deal with drug problems or find work instead of being sent back to prison, he said.It cant be that the prison-industrial complex serves as the economic engines for our communities, Mr. David said. That cant be the answer.A sustained drop in violent crime and changes in policing in New York City, along with the 2009 repeal of the states so-called Rockefeller drug laws, which imposed mandatory minimum sentences for even low-level offenders, resulted in a decrease in the number of inmates, many of whom were minorities. The policies that kept prisons full were discriminatory, criminal justice reform experts said.Its the beginning of substantial declines in our state prison population, said Judith A. Greene, founding director of Justice Strategies, a nonpartisan nonprofit policy research group focused on mass incarceration. I dont see us switching gears any time soon.As of last April, New York had sold only three of its 13 prisons that had closed since 2011, and only one, the former Mid-Orange Correctional Facility in Warwick in the Hudson Valley, had found a new use, as an office park.Chateaugay is a rural town in the North Country with about 2,000 residents. The median income is approximately $40,000 a year. Nearly 28 percent of the residents are below the federal poverty level  almost double the percentage for the state over all, according to the census.The prison, which had 234 inmates, helped the economy, said Assemblyman Billy Jones, a Democrat, who is a former corrections officer and a past mayor of Chateaugay.We were a large agriculture area at one time, he said. When dairy farming decreased in the late 1980s or early 1990s, a lot of people found jobs in these prisons. To see them closing, its hard on our economy.Mr. Jones said that, while he understood the changes to the drug laws, he believed the prison should have remained open because it was among the newer medium-security facilities, and it also provided a place for parole violators to get counseling.There has been no real, good plan when these facilities shutter, he said.Mr. David and others disagree. The prison is being put up for auction to avoid the lengthy process of requesting proposals, Mr. David said.The State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision kept the buildings heated during harsh winters to keep them in good shape. Workers were offered jobs at other prisons, and the state is working with communities to develop economic proposals in places where prisons closed.Ms. Greene said research showed that the stigma of being a prison community might actually hurt economic growth.The label prison town is a disincentive to any other kind of industrial development, she said. The prison boom in the long run hurt them more than it helped.With the coming auction, Mr. Bilow said, there has been a sense of hope. The town, which is close to the Canadian border, could prove attractive to a Canadian distributor.Its country and its a good place to live right on the end of the Adirondack Mountains, Mr. Bilow said. People are hopeful that someone will buy it and take care of it and turn it into a growing business.
