(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.  U.S. allies are annoyed, Europe debates funding and NASA is heading to Mars. Heres the latest: A sword of Damocles over the global economy.European leaders are annoyed, not grateful, with the Trump administrations last-minute decision that spares their countries from punitive aluminum and steel tariffs for another month.They find it absurd that Mr. Trump would risk a trade war with Europe, the United States biggest trading partner, rather than joining forces to rein in Chinese trade practices they both oppose. Above, a steel factory in Germany.Washington is already considering prohibiting Chinese citizens from performing sensitive research in the U.S. that could further strengthen Chinas move to high tech._____ The European Union is trying to hit member countries that have flouted democratic values where it hurts: in the pocketbook.Challenged by increasingly autocratic governments in Poland and Hungary, Brussels is considering using aid cuts to punish populist attacks on the rule of law and judicial independence.Money could be a particularly effective weapon in Hungary, a major recipient of E.U. funding, where the recent resignations of judges have raised fears that the government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban is further undermining the countrys judiciary. Above, an anti-government protest in Budapest in April._____ A royal cold shoulder. Only one reporter will be allowed into St. Georges Chapel for the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on May 19.Our correspondent in London says the restricted access marks a turning point in the historically symbiotic relationship between the royal family and Englands infamous tabloids.Harry and his brother, Prince William, harbor a deep mistrust of the paparazzi, who were pursuing their mother when she was killed in a car crash. And some tabloids have published acid-tongued criticism of Ms. Markle.Separately, the British Labour Party has an unusual strategy for winning upcoming elections: campaigning in Londons superrich neighborhoods, traditionally conservative strongholds. But growing discontent with Britains conservative government is giving Labour hope for victory._____ President Trump responded to our publication of more than 40 questions that the special counsel, Robert Mueller would like to ask him. He said it was disgraceful that the questions had been leaked.The special counsels investigators read the questions in March to Mr. Trumps lawyers, who wrote them down. That list was provided to The Times by a person outside the presidents legal team.The reporter who obtained the list speaks about what they mean on our news podcast, The Daily._____ Mission to Mars.NASAs InSight spacecraft, scheduled to launch on Saturday, aims to discover the red planets deep interior, and will be listening intently for marsquakes.Explore the history of the many missions to Mars here (and if youre on a smartphone, youll get the augmented-reality version).And not to be outdone, the European Space Agency released a 3-D map of the Milky Way, containing more than a billion stars, the most detailed survey ever produced of our home galaxy._____Business Jean-Noel Frydman spent decades turning France.com into a thriving business. The French government took it away (and redirected it to a portal, above, run by the French tourism agency). Now theyre locked in a legal battle (and going to court in America). Tone deaf: The head of the British supermarket chain Sainsburys apologized for singing were in the money before a TV interview about a merger that many fear will lead to job losses and higher grocery prices. Apple announced an enormous stock buyback as it reported quarterly earnings, saying it would return $100 billion to shareholders. Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, announced a new privacy control that will allow users to erase their history, similar to the way you might clear your web browser. (Also in the works: a new dating service.) Instagram added a new bully filter to weed out comments aimed at harassing its 800 million users. The filter will also hide comments attacking a persons appearance and alert the social network to repeat offenders.  Heres a snapshot of global markets.In the News The Armenian opposition leader  called for nationwide strikes after the governing party thwarted his bid to become prime minister, setting the stage for more protests against the ruling elite. Above, his supporters reacted to the vote in the capital of Yerevan. [The New York Times] President Trumps longtime physician said he was aggressively cut out of the Trump orbit early last year and that two aides seized Mr. Trumps medical records without authorization. [The New York Times] The Paris police arrested nearly 200 masked demonstrators who smashed shop windows and burned cars during annual May Day protests. [BBC] Iran blocked Telegram, the countrys most popular messaging app, claiming that the service endangers national security. (Twitter is also blocked.) [The New York Times]Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Chocolate chip cookies are a midweek smile. Should you fix a small space or trade up for a bigger house? Declutter your computer and organize those open windows.Noteworthy Is this artichoke kosher? Since an Israeli rabbi put the kibosh on Italys Jewish-style fried artichokes, its supporters have mounted a fierce defense of their beloved treat, for centuries a symbol of Romes ancient Jewish community. Above, the Festival of the Artichoke in Ladispoli, Italy. A very German love story: We visited a married couple who are political enemies having the dialogue their divided country is not. (And yes, it gets awkward). The happiest guy in the world: Two decades ago, Mario Salcedo went on a cruise  and never came back. Hes part of an elite cabal of cruise passengers who choose to live at sea permanently. Dive into his life of endless buffets, tropical islands and a sense of freedom not found on land.Back StoryThe newspaper Pravda officially began publishing in Russia this week in 1912, as Vladimir Lenins megaphone for communist thought. (Pravda, which means truth, was probably historys most inaccurately named publication, The Times once noted.)One of Pravdas early editors was Joseph Stalin, and, along with Izvestia, which means news, the two papers became the main tools for propaganda in the Soviet Union. They also became an ironic refrain in Soviet life: There is no news in Pravda and no truth in Izvestia.With a circulation of 11 million at its peak  aided by mandatory subscriptions for government organizations  Pravda spoke with the absolute, leaden authority of the Kremlin, The Times wrote.After the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991, Pravda lost its captive audience. The next year, it lamented in a note to readers the market forces that led to a brief shutdown:Under the Czar the newspaper was closed nine times, then four under the Provisional Government, and then in August 1991. The time has come to put us on our knees once again. Some politicians think that 80 years of Pravda can be struck out of history.The paper was later bought by two Greek capitalists, but it still struggled, briefly shutting down again in 1996. (Today, its circulation is about 100,000.)Robb Todd wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
