Each week, Kevin Roose, technology columnist at The New York Times, discusses developments in the tech industry, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two. Kevin is away this week, so Adam Satariano, The Timess European tech correspondent, is stepping in. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello! All your regular newsletter authors are writing books, taking a week off, or taking a week off when they should be writing books. Instead, youve got me, the newest member of The New York Times tech crew, covering the European tech world based in London.In what seems like an acceptable form of new-hire hazing, Ive been asked to share some of this weeks tech news from a perspective 5,000-plus miles from Silicon Valley. Lets get to it.The Four-Letter Privacy LawInstagram is threatening to block me and many others in Europe out of its app if I dont acknowledge new privacy settings. I had a similar dance with Facebook and Twitter recently. The notices are a result of a European data-privacy law called the General Data Protection Regulation, known as G.D.P.R., going into effect on May 25.I wont bore you with details. With 11 chapters and 99 subsections, the laws text is a good homeopathic cure for insomnia; it even has many well-paid lawyers confused about how it will be enforced.Im not convinced that the regulations will do much to change the current tech hierarchy, or that bombarding people with consent requests will change behavior, but Im eager to see how new transparency rules play out. The law gives European residents stronger rights to see the information a company collects about them  such as banks, health clubs, retailers or other organizations with personal data  and to ask that it be deleted.The disclosures will provide an inside look at the dossiers companies compile about us. Privacy groups, seeing an opportunity, are planning to submit data requests on peoples behalf and file class-action-style complaints when they spot wrongdoing.As weve seen with the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal, shame can be a more efficient method for changing a companys behavior than any legal proceeding.If you get your data, let me know what you find.(Unrelated: G.D.P.R. has inspired some wonderful nerd internet, like this playlist.)Taxpayer-Backed Start-UpsA long-running sore spot in the European tech scene is the regions lack of large, globally-influential technology companies to match the likes of Alphabet, Uber, Alibaba or Tencent.European governments have responded by throwing money at the problem. In the past several months, the European Union, France and Britain have announced billions of dollars worth of new financing for venture capital firms and start-ups. A little-known group backed by the European Union, called the European Investment Fund, has for years bankrolled some of the regions top venture capital funds.People disagree on whether this is a good use of taxpayer money, but to keep up with the United States and China, particularly in areas like artificial intelligence, many European policymakers dont think they have a choice.Cambridge Analytica Shuts DownCambridge Analytica, the political consulting firm that has been embroiled in a data-harvesting scandal, said on Wednesday that it would cease operations and file for bankruptcy.But there was immediately some skepticism about the announcement. My colleagues Nicholas Confessore and Matthew Rosenberg reported that executives at Cambridge Analytica and its affiliate, SCL Group, along with the family of a billionaire Republican financier, Robert Mercer, have moved to set up another British firm called Emerdata. Also involved in the new company is Erik Prince, who founded Blackwater, the private security firm that was renamed Xe Services after Blackwater contractors were convicted of killing Iraqi civilians.Cambridge Analytica said it was being punished for common practices in the online advertising industry. Its a deflection, sure, but also not entirely wrong.Facebook said it began an investigation to find other groups that used data-harvesting tactics similar to those employed by Cambridge Analytica. If Mark Zuckerberg wants to make good on his pledge to be more open and transparent, hell make the findings public, even if its not flattering for Facebook.In Other NewsThe internet collectively chuckled when Zuckerberg put aside Facebooks data-privacy troubles to introduce a dating service at the companys annual developers conference. The leading online-dating company, Match Group, responded by saying, essentially, game on.Apple showed its gratitude for recent corporate tax cuts in the United States by rewarding its investors with an eye-popping $100 billion buyback and huge dividend increase.One of Chinas largest start-ups, the smartphone and gadget maker Xiaomi, is holding an initial public offering in Hong Kong. Many Chinese start-ups have struggled outside their home market, but Xiaomi said it would use the money to expand internationally, as well as to design new handsets, TVs, home speakers and other households gadgets. Also: Amazon is making dog food. Seriously.Adam Satariano is the European technology correspondent for The Times. You can follow him on Twitter here: @satariano.
