Sting and Bruce Willis have each said goodbye for now to Central Park West after selling sprawling duplexes there.The sales were among Manhattans priciest residential closings in the month of April, most of which were also near the park, according to New York City property records.ImageSting in concert in Warsaw, Poland, in April.CreditMarcin Kmiecinski/EPA, via ShutterstockStings transaction, at $50 million, was by far the most expensive. The British musician, who used his real name, Gordon Sumner, in the deal, sold a penthouse on the 16th and 17th floors of 15 Central Park West that he and his wife, the actress Trudie Styler, had shared since 2008. He paid nearly $27 million for the unit, and listed it in May 2017 for $56 million.ImageBruce Willis onstage during CinemaCon in Las Vegas in April.CreditEthan Miller/Getty Images For CinemaconThe duplex at 271 Central Park West that was sold by Mr. Willis, the actor, and his wife, Emma Heming Willis, a model and actress, closed at its $17.75 million list price.There were numerous other high-profile sales in April. The singer Roberta Flack sold an apartment at the Dakota, on the corner of Central Park West and West 72nd Street; Georgette Mosbacher, an entrepreneur and political fund-raiser who was recently nominated to be the United States ambassador to Poland, sold her Fifth Avenue home across from the park; and the developer Larry A. Silverstein bought a penthouse at his latest project in TriBeCa.In notable estate sales, the Upper East Side mansion of David Rockefeller and the Park Avenue apartment of Vladimir Kagan, the furniture designer, closed.And there were sizable transactions at the super-tall 432 Park Avenue skyscraper, between 56th and 57th Streets on Billionaires Row. This included the months second-biggest closing, at $42 million: Unit No. 77B, with four bedrooms, five full baths and two powder rooms across 5,421 square feet.Stings duplex penthouse at the limestone-clad 15 Central Park West, between 61st and 62nd Streets, measures 5,417 square feet. It has three bedrooms, three full baths and two half baths, and a home office that could be converted into a fourth bedroom.The lower level features an enormous living room with a centrally located modern gas fireplace, a library area and a 44-by-9-foot terrace that offers striking park views. A formal dining room leads to a windowed eat-in kitchen with a breakfast bar and stainless-steel appliances, including two refrigerators and three dishwashers.The en-suite bedrooms are upstairs. The master suite, which has oversize windows looking out onto the park, contains a seating area, two dressing rooms, a spalike bath, and a steam room with a rain shower.The buyers identity was shielded by a limited liability company.Deborah Kern of the Corcoran Group, the listing broker, declined to comment on the sale. The monthly carrying charges total $17,615.The duplex sold by Mr. Willis is on the third and fourth floors of 271 Central Park West, a co-op building at 87th Street, facing the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir. Unlike Stings apartment, this one sold quickly  just over a week after it was listed early this year. The buyer was identified as Jeffrey A. Keswin, a hedge fund manager.The apartment has six bedrooms and four and a half baths, along with oversize windows that provide park views from almost every room.The main entry is on the fourth floor, which has a large corner living room, formal dining room, windowed eat-in kitchen, mud room, den and en-suite bedroom. The other en-suite bedrooms and a laundry are on the lower level. The master suite features two walk-in closets and an office.Mr. Willis, whose film credits include the Die Hard series and Pulp Fiction, had purchased the apartment for nearly $17 million from Wesley Edens, an owner of the Milwaukee Bucks basketball team in 2015  just as he was selling another Central Park West apartment, No. 300.ImageRoberta Flack, a four-time Grammy Award winner, sold her two-bedroom co-op at 1 West 72nd Street, the Dakota, for $5.8 million.CreditCharles Sykes/Invision, via Charles Sykes/Invision/ApMs. Flack, a four-time Grammy Award winner, sold Unit 78 at 1 West 72nd Street, the Dakota, for $5.8 million. The two-bedroom, two-bath home first went on the market in 2015 for $9.5 million; its most recent asking price was nearly $7 million. Originally configured with three bedrooms, the apartment has four wood-burning fireplaces, 12-foot ceilings and park views.The buyers, Eric Damman Eisner and Stacey Bendet Eisner, are expected to combine this apartment with a neighboring three-bedroom, No. 77, that they bought in March for nearly $9.5 million.ImageGeorgette Mosbacher, an entrepreneur and political fund-raiser, sold her Fifth Avenue home across from Central Park for $21 million.CreditRick Wilking/ReutersThe apartment sold by Ms. Mosbacher is on the east side of the park, at 1020 Fifth Avenue and 83rd Street, across from the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The sale price for the unit, which occupies the entire fifth floor of the 14-story co-op building, was $21 million. Ms. Mosbachers initial asking price was $29.5 million when she listed it in January 2017.The buyer was Andrew Lauren, a film producer and a son of the designer Ralph Lauren.In TriBeCa, Mr. Silverstein paid $32.6 million for PH80 at 30 Park Place, which was developed by Silverstein Properties. The 6,200-square-foot apartment has six bedrooms and seven and a half baths.The estate of Mr. Rockefeller sold his 40-foot-wide, four-story mansion at 146 East 65th Street for $20 million  a sizable reduction from the original $32.5 million asking price last June.Mr. Rockefeller, a banker and philanthropist who was a grandson of the oil magnate John D. Rockefeller, died in March 2017 at the age of 101. He and his wife, Peggy, had raised their six children at the house, a red brick Colonial Revival a few blocks from the park, between Lexington and Third Avenues in the Upper East Side Historic District.The house has just under 10,000 square feet of interior space that includes eight bedrooms, eight full baths and three half baths, in addition to six smaller staff bedrooms. There is also a 2,500-square-foot basement.Mr. Kagans estate sold the designers co-op apartment, No. 14G, at 1185 Park Avenue, between 93rd and 94th Streets, for $7 million. The unit, which was listed for just under $8 million, has 3,825 square feet, with five bedrooms and four baths.Mr. Kagan, known for his midcentury-modern designs, died in April 2016. No word on whether any of his furnishings, shown in the listing, were included in the sale.
