For the past 30 years, Mathilde Freund, 101, has been selling vintage clothing and antique jewelry at Grand Bazaar NYC at Columbus Avenue and 77th Street. Ms. Freund was born in Vienna in 1916. In 1937, she fled to Paris when the German Army invaded. She came to New York 15 years later, ultimately finding a job as a social worker at what is now Mount Sinai Beth Israel, and then at the French Hospital, until it closed in the late 1970s. Thats when she found her second calling: selling her wares at the flea market. I never liked a desk job or dealing with papers, she said. I like human beings. Ms. Freund, who takes classes at Fordham University during the week, has lived in the same one-bedroom apartment overlooking Central Park West for 65 years.HOPE FOR GOOD NEWS I get up at 5 a.m. I cant help it. Im like a computer. I take a hot shower, then a cold one. Its good for your body and circulation. I was brought up in Europe, so a cold shower is nothing. Then I watch the news and hope for good news. Mostly its not so wonderful. I like Channel 1. I listen to music on Channel 75, too, which plays Schubert, Bach and Mozart. I make some toast and read a book. I love to read. It keeps my mind young.OBJECT WRANGLING From 7 to 8 I organize my cart. That takes time. I sell vintage clothing Ive accumulated from my travels or things people have given me, porcelain plates and cups, and lots of jewelry  sterling silver, pearls or stones.A SUPPORTIVE BOYFRIEND A very punctual lady picks me up at 8. She carries my cart into the elevator and walks me across the street to the flea market. I use a cane now when I go outside. Five years ago I slipped in the apartment and broke my femur. It was on my birthday. I call him my boyfriend. I put him in the corner and he never answers me.PROUSTIAN TREAT Some mornings I go to Starbucks. The cappuccino is very good. Its similar to a Vienna cafe I used to go to whose coffee came with whipped cream. Sometimes I had that for breakfast.SET UP By 8:15 or 8:30 Im at my table in the cafeteria of the school. I spend time spreading out everything: jewelry in the front; bigger items in the back. The bags go in a certain place; the clothing gets hung. I dont look at other peoples tables. I stay at my own spot and mind my business.ALL ABOUT EARRINGS People trickle in at 10. In the morning, many come to pass time and have no intention to buy anything. Earrings sell the best. Young people are very attracted to them because it intensifies the face. They make all the difference. It attracts the opposite sex.AGING TIP I eat lunch at 12:30. I bring ham and cheese or a turkey sandwich on rye bread, or a salad. Someone brings me a cup of coffee from the office. I eat very little but I eat good food. Thats why Im 101.IT TAKES PATIENCE From 1 to 3 Im sitting, watching and seeing who is coming to the table. Most come in and pass by. You have to be lucky to have at least one good customer a day and have what someone wants. I had three butter dishes for several years. Recently I sold them to a mother and daughter. They were $25 each and I gave them $2 off. Everyone is happy when you give them a discount.NEGOTIATIONS Three to six is when its busiest. People go to church or Central Park. Theyve had lunch. Theyre more relaxed. Theyre ready to buy things. Mostly people like things from France, England or Germany if its porcelain. Ive learned not to argue with the customer. When they bargain, I try to give them a break. If they ask for too much you have to say no. If you want to make a deal you give in to get rid of the items and not lose the customer. At 6 I pack my cart. So far Ive never broken anything. By 7 the same woman picks me up and walks me home.HOME I leave the cart as is because Im exhausted. On Friday I make vegetable soup from scratch. Its good for three days and I reheat that. Then I watch the news. Im curious to see whats happened while Ive been selling my things. I like to watch the weather to know about tomorrow. The best medication is to sleep. I fall into bed and sleep through the night.
