To the Editor:Re An Overdue Reckoning for Apu, by Vikas Bajaj (Editorial Observer, April 30), about an Indian character on the animated TV series The Simpsons that some South Asians find offensive:This is a ridiculous commentary on a self-made, hardworking Indian who happens to own and work in a store where his accent wont hurt him. Indians come in all stripes, from the chief executives of Google and Microsoft to the Apus of Deli Marts and Kwik-E-Marts to the taxi drivers of New York City.I myself am Indian and a professor at Rutgers Business School, and I am not in the least offended by Apus accent. Mr. Bajaj, smile and get over it.MARK CASTELINO, NEWARKTo the Editor:Vikas Bajaj raises important questions. Stereotypes in a comedy are meant to generate laughter, but Apu is simply not funny anymore, and the grossly exaggerated South Asian accent and behavior are tiresome.It is the successful sitcom The Big Bang Theory that has appropriated the modern comedic stereotype of an Indian-American. Raj is nerdy, highly educated with a professional job, video-chats with his parents on a laptop, doesnt handle alcohol well and is inept with women.Raj is not an Indian role model by any measure, but Apus character invokes the worst kind of stereotyping and socioeconomic exclusion. Moreover, it belies American societys willingness and capacity to assimilate and empower the immigrant. In 2018, Apus America appears claustrophobic, static and without hope. Wheres the fun in that?RAJIV THIND, BRISBANE, AUSTRALIATo the Editor:Most of us know a friendly, hardworking and thrifty Apu somewhere. An endearing person. If Apu has to go for political correctnesss sake, then other Simpsons characters have to go as well, since they all are representations of bumbling people of one kind of another. As a grandfather, I object to Grandpa. I look much better and  obviously  I am a lot smarter.But the one character who definitely has to go is Homer. He is a white working-class guy, with limited education and skills, and not very good judgment. I even suspect whom he voted for in the last presidential election. I say if Apu has to go, so does Homer. And Grandpa. Marge, you may be next.HENRY F. WEINSCHENKCHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.To the Editor:Instead of dumping the character Apu from the show, the writers of The Simpsons should introduce two new characters: Apus Ivy-educated son and daughter, the software engineer and the doctor.GERARD IANNELLIHADDON HEIGHTS, N.J.To the Editor:Please dont terminate Apu for the sins of others. I am very sorry that Vikas Bajaj is offended by the character Apu. But the real offense is that people dont teach their children to show kindness and respect to others, and are not held to account. The real offense is that in this Trumpian era, people who would have been hesitant to display their bigotry no longer feel the need to keep it under wraps, but are content to use Apu as a tool to tease, humiliate or exclude other people.Now that many people from South Asia are living and working in the United States, they are targets of the ignorant, offensive behavior that is always the lot of immigrants, for at least one generation. Apu is a wonderful, vivid character, and Im glad to have met him.LISA MCCANNREDDING RIDGE, CONN.
