The 49 questions that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, hopes to ask President Trump as part of the yearlong Russia investigation suggest that Mr. Mueller knows a great deal more than hes letting on  and he hasnt even gotten to the follow-ups yet.After the questions, which were published by The Times on Monday, were provided to Mr. Trumps legal team in March, John Dowd, the presidents lead personal lawyer at the time, urged him to avoid sitting for an interview with Mr. Mueller. When Mr. Trump said he intended to anyway, Mr. Dowd resigned.Reading through the list, its clear why Mr. Dowd was so concerned. Federal investigators dont like being lied to, and Mr. Trump has a marked tendency to say things that arent true. If he agrees to speak with Mr. Muellers team, he will have to answer some very basic questions about what he knew, when he knew it and what motivated some of his most shocking and inexplicable actions over the past year.[Receive the days most urgent debates right in your inbox by subscribing to the Opinion Today newsletter.]To name just a few: When and why did you decide to fire James Comey, the F.B.I. director, who was leading the Russia investigation at the time? What did you mean when you told NBCs Lester Holt that you fired Mr. Comey because this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story? Did you try to persuade the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to protect you from the investigation? Did you secretly promise to pardon Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser who has pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators about his communications with the Russian ambassador?The questions are a reminder of just how aberrant this White House has been. No prior president so openly assaulted the rule of law or undermined the integrity of the law enforcement community. In that light, Mr. Muellers questions also provide a measure of comfort that, amid all the chaos and tumult of this administration, career public servants in law enforcement continue to do their jobs, investigating crimes and pursuing justice. It may unnerve Mr. Trump, who has spent his life skirting the law and avoiding full accountability, but this is how the law works. Without saying a word publicly, Mr. Mueller and his team of experienced investigators are showing America how a government premised on the rule of law is supposed to function. The process may seem slow, but that is out of diligence and caution. Its fundamental purpose is truth-seeking  unlike, say, the embarrassing obfuscations of the Republican leaders of the House Intelligence Committee, who last week absolved Mr. Trump and his campaign of any wrongdoing in a 250-page report that reads more like a work of fantasy than a government investigation.Early Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump tweeted that the leak of Mr. Muellers questions was disgraceful and that it would seem very hard to obstruct justice for a crime that never happened!Wrong. Obstruction of justice is itself a federal crime  see, for example, Section 1505 of Title 18 of the United States Code  regardless of whether prosecutors can establish an underlying offense. Mr. Trump and his defenders mock it as a process crime, but the rule of law breaks down if people can interfere, with impunity, in law enforcements efforts to do justice. Dont forget that both presidents who have faced impeachment proceedings in the past few decades, Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton, were accused of obstructing justice.Anyway, Mr. Mueller appears to have at least some evidence of an underlying offense. That is the implication of about a dozen of his questions, including the most surprising of all: Was Mr. Trump aware of any efforts by his campaign, and specifically by his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, to seek Russias help in winning the 2016 election?We dont know exactly what is leading Mr. Mueller to want to ask this question of Mr. Trump, but its worth noting that as far back as August 2017, CNN reported that American intelligence services had intercepted communications among suspected Russian operatives discussing conversations they claimed to have had with Mr. Manafort, in which he requested their help in damaging Hillary Clintons election prospects. Mr. Mueller has already secured an indictment of Mr. Manafort on federal charges, including money laundering, tax fraud and making false statements, and has extracted a guilty plea from Mr. Manaforts top aide, Rick Gates, on related charges. Mr. Manafort is fighting the charges while Mr. Gates is now cooperating with investigators.Whatever information he has, Mr. Mueller, like any seasoned prosecutor, does not ask questions unless he already knows the answers. Whether or not Mr. Trump decides to talk to him, the rest of us will know, too, soon enough.
