Roy Moore, the former Senate candidate from Alabama who has been accused of pursuing sexual and romantic relationships with teenagers, sued four of his accusers on Monday, alleging that they had defamed and conspired against him.In a lawsuit filed in the Circuit Court of Etowah County, Ala., where Mr. Moore lives, he accused the women  Leigh Corfman, Debbie Gibson, Tina Johnson and Beverly Nelson  of committing libel and slander by making statements which were false, malicious, and made with intentional or reckless disregard of the truth and with the intent that those statements be published to others, including through state and national media.Those statements caused harm to the reputation and character of Judge Moore and also to his wife Kayla, lowered their standing in the community and discouraged members of the community from associating with them, the lawsuit said.Mr. Moore is seeking compensatory damages for lost income and professional opportunities, as well as punitive damages.Ms. Corfman responded in a statement released by her lawyer, Neil Roman: These latest claims by the Moore camp have no more merit than those he has made before. Leigh Corfman stands by the accuracy of every one of her statements about Mr. Moores sexual abuse of her when she was a 14-year-old high school freshman and he was a 32-year-old assistant district attorney. Ms. Corfman is no longer a teenager and is not going to let Mr. Moore victimize her again.Ms. Johnsons lawyer, Paula Cobia, cast the lawsuit as a money grab.Mr. Moore continues his solicitation for money from his followers to fund the meritless lawsuit he filed today, a suit in which he seeks to enrich himself by demanding compensatory and punitive damages, Ms. Cobia said in a statement. She added: Ms. Johnson stands by and reaffirms the truthfulness of every statement she has made about the sexual assault she suffered from the hands of Mr. Moore. He has lost any power of intimidation he once held.Gloria Allred, a lawyer for Ms. Nelson, declined to comment, and Ms. Gibson did not respond to a phone call and text message on Monday.All four women went public with their accounts in the fall of 2017, not long before a special Senate election in December in which Mr. Moore was running as a Republican against Doug Jones, a Democrat. Mr. Jones went on to win the election, becoming the first Alabama Democrat elected to the United States Senate in more than two decades.The allegations differed in their specifics and severity, but painted the same big picture: repeated sexual predation by a man who built his judicial career on his image as a moral crusader.Ms. Nelson said that when she was 16, in 1977, Mr. Moore sexually assaulted her in his car. Ms. Corfman said that in 1979, when she was 14 and he was 32, Mr. Moore drove her to his home and kissed her; on a second occasion, she said, he touched her over her bra and underwear. Ms. Gibson said that when she was 17, in 1981, Mr. Moore asked her out after speaking to her high school civics class, then went on to take her on several dates on which they kissed. And Ms. Johnson said that in 1991, when she was 28, he grabbed her buttocks as she left his law office, having just signed away custody of her son to her mother.Mr. Moore, 71, has vehemently denied all the allegations and accused the women who made them  the four named in the lawsuit as well as several others  of conspiring along with Democratic officials to derail his campaign.He has responded with a ferocity characteristic of his long career. Before last years campaign, he was best known for his combative stands on social and religious issues. In 2003, he was removed as chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court after he refused to take down a monument of the Ten Commandments in the states judicial building. After being re-elected to the same position in 2012, he refused to enforce the United States Supreme Courts 2015 decision legalizing same-sex marriage.Mr. Moore filed a separate defamation lawsuit against Ms. Corfman in April, after she sued him for defamation in January.
