This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.Much about Rudy Giulianis Fox News interview last night is still unclear  including whether he helped or hurt his client, President Trump.But one thing is clear: Giuliani has forfeited any claim to being a patriot who believes in this countrys system of law and government. He is now going out of his way to besmirch honest law-enforcement officials who present a risk to Trump. Giuliani, like Trump, has decided that the law is an instrument of power, not justice.Giuliani just referred to federal law enforcement agents from the district where he used to be US attorney as stormtroopers,  Matt Miller, a former Justice Department official, tweeted last night. What a despicable human being he is.For anyone who remembers Giulianis years as mayor of New York  which included a lot of good and a lot of bad, but never sank to these depths  his new job as Trumps enforcer is a sad sight to behold.Golden State politics. California will hold its primaries for congressional elections in a little over a month, and Dave Wasserman of the Cook Political Report writes that, Democrats are at risk of squandering several seats that would otherwise appear to be golden pickup opportunities.Why? California switched to an open primary system in 2012. Rather than party primaries, all candidates run a single race, and the top two finishers move on to the general election.The trouble stems from a force thats mostly positive: enormous Democratic enthusiasm for this years elections. That enthusiasm has led to a surge of Democrats running for office. But in four districts in southern California, there is now a strange dynamic.All four are represented by a Republican but were won by Hillary Clinton in 2016. And in all four, a large field of Democratic candidates could leave each of them with small vote totals  and allow Republican candidates to finish one-two in the primary, even if the two Republicans combined to win significantly less than 50 percent of the primary vote. In that case, Republicans would be guaranteed of keeping the seat, because they would be the only two candidates in the general election. Write-in votes are banned under the California system.In the long term, the solution should involve changing the law to introduce ranked-choice voting, which allows voters not only to choose one candidate but to rank all in a preferred order. Under that system, the most popular Democrat and most popular Republican would likely advance to the general election.In the short term, though, the law isnt going to change, which means Democrats would be wise to coalesce around one or two candidates with the best chance of advancing. To help make that happen, Democratic candidates lagging in the polls should consider dropping out.I understand why some voters will find this advice frustrating: They want to vote for their preferred candidate, not just an acceptable one who appears to be the most electable. But the stakes in this years midterm elections are too high to let the ideal be the enemy of the acceptable. If Democrats dont retake the House of Representatives, imagine how emboldened President Trump would feel. And the partys chances of winning the House may well depend on Orange County.Wasserman, one of the sharpest election analysts, thinks the risk is real: The closer we get to CAs 6/5 primary, the more Im convinced: high odds Dems botch/get locked out of *at least* one top-two primary in a Clinton/R seat, he tweeted. For more, you can read Kathleen Ronayne of The Associated Press on the same issue; The Los Angeles Timess ranking of the states congressional races; and Nate Cohn of The Upshot on the political importance of Orange County in 2018.More on California. Asian-American voters will play a big role in Californias swing congressional districts, as Sara Sadhwani of the University of Southern California writes on the Monkey Cage blog. Asian-Americans in Southern California have traditionally voted Republican, Sadhwani notes; many are Vietnamese-American, which is among the most conservative Asian-American subgroups. But in 2016, more Asian-Americans in these districts supported Hillary Clinton than Donald Trump, suggesting that many are up for grabs in this years midterms.In a previous newsletter, I wrote about the national role of Asian-American voters.
