An order of 300 new subway cars should have arrived in New York City by January 2017, months before the system was officially declared to be in crisis.Instead, only 32 of those cars are now on the tracks. The order is at least two years behind schedule.The new subway cars may not have averted the current emergency, but they sure could have helped. Deploying some of the oldest trains in the world, the subway has been plagued by an increase in breakdowns.In an effort to save the subway, officials at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority are promising ambitious plans that will cost billions of dollars. But two key projects  the train order and a plan to modernize the signals on the No. 7 line  are significantly behind schedule.The delays raise a central question: How can subway officials tackle a soup to nuts overhaul of the system when they cannot finish what they have already started?Any hope that subway riders will see better service in the near future will depend on sweeping changes at an agency that is not known for its nimbleness.The M.T.A. doesnt have to do it two or three times faster  they have to do it five or 10 times faster in order to stick to a timeline that would make a noticeable difference in peoples lives, said John Raskin, the executive director of the Riders Alliance, an advocacy group.Instead, the authority has a reputation for finishing projects late and far over budget. The latest embarrassment came last month when the authority acknowledged that a project to build a new train station deep beneath Grand Central Terminal will now cost over $11 billion and will not open until 2022  about 13 years past the original estimate.The delayed subway cars, known as R-179s, are being built by Bombardier, a Canadian company that so poorly managed the contract that it was blocked from winning a different order for as many as 1,612 subway cars that could be worth nearly $4 billion. The $740 million contract for the R-179s, which was awarded in 2012, has had problems, including malfunctioning door lights.Bombardier must produce one car each day to meet its current promise to deliver all of the subway trains by early next year.At the same time, a plan to install modern signals on the No. 7 line, which connects Manhattan to densely populated neighborhoods in Queens, appears to be delayed again, until the end of this year. The signal work by Thales, a French company, has already taken more than seven years and is at least two years overdue.The No. 7 line would be the second route to have its signals modernized under a timetable that would not see all of the systems signals updated for almost 50 years and that officials are striving to accelerate. The L line, which runs between Manhattan and Brooklyn, was the first to receive the new signal system, which is known as communications-based train control, or C.B.T.C.The subways new leader, Andy Byford, said he has spoken frequently with executives from the two companies involved in the overdue projects  Mario Ploquin at Thales and Benoit Brossoit at Bombardier  and had stressed the urgency of finishing the work.Theyre both on my speed dial, Mr. Byford said. Im all over both projects.The two projects promise to bring some relief to frustrated riders, though more comprehensive overhauls are still years away. The new signals on the No. 7 line will allow two or three additional trains to run each hour, reducing wait times and alleviating overcrowding. The new subway cars should break down less frequently, improving reliability.But with software problems plaguing the new signal system, Thales wants to push back the completion date. The signals were supposed to be installed by April 2016 under a $588 million contract the company won in 2010. Queens residents who live along the No. 7 line have grown exasperated over recurring station closings necessary for the work.Mr. Byford said he would push for the signals to be finished in the next few months.They may be saying the end of 2018  Im saying no, this summer, Mr. Byford said. Im insisting they get to the bottom of these software problems.Mr. Ploquin, president of Thales transportation business in the U.S., said he would work with the transit agency to determine whether the project could be finished earlier.It is our goal to deliver a safe system which everyone can be proud of and provides better reliability and on-time performance, Mr. Ploquin said in a statement.The transit agencys most important task now is to regain its credibility so that the public believes it is capable of pulling off a rescue plan, Mr. Raskin said.We know that its possible to modernize a transit system much more quickly because its happened in other places, Mr. Raskin said, pointing to London, where the subway is older than New Yorks and officials have upgraded the signals far more rapidly.Mr. Byford, who cut his teeth on the transit systems in London and Toronto, plans to release a comprehensive plan to modernize the subway this month. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who controls the authority and is running for re-election this year, has pressed him to upgrade all of the subway signals in under a decade, though Mr. Cuomo has touted a new technology that has not been used on a major transit system.As for the setbacks on the subway car order and signal work, Mr. Byford blamed the suppliers for failing to meet their deadlines. He is eager to set a new tone.I cant turn the clock back, but Im determined going forward that we will deliver on our promises, Mr. Byford said.The first R-179 cars started to appear on New Yorks subway in January. But four months later, with only 32 cars, there are just four, eight-car trains running on the J and Z lines. An additional 21 cars are still being tested.Bombardier plans to deliver all of the cars by the first quarter of 2019, according to Maryanne Roberts, a spokeswoman for the company. The workers at their factory in Plattsburgh, N.Y., about 300 miles north of the city, are working to finish the cars as quickly as possible while maintaining the highest standards of quality, Ms. Roberts said in a statement.The oldest subway cars, known as R-32s, arrived in the 1960s. They break down more frequently than other cars and should have been retired years ago. While newer cars can travel nearly 500,000 miles between failures, the R-32s go only about 33,000 miles between failures.Andrew Albert, an M.T.A. board member who represents riders, said the system desperately needs the new Bombardier cars as soon as possible.Its way past time, Mr. Albert said. Subway cars are not meant to be kept this long.
