(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trumps signature phrase, Beijings turnaround on tech and a soccer star shatters barriers. Heres what you need to know:  The U.S. has an unprecedented opportunity when President Trump meets soon with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un.Those were the words of Mike Pompeo, who spoke beside Mr. Trump at his ceremonial swearing-in as the new U.S. secretary of state. The president, noting the applause, said it was more spirit than Ive heard from the State Department in a long time.On other issues, Mr. Trump has a go-to line: Well see what happens. Hes used it more than two dozen times in the past month, and on issues ranging from trade clashes with Europe and China to negotiations with North Korea and Iran.Those who study his speech patterns are starting to wonder: What happens when we finally see what happens?_____ Beijing is changing its tune on big tech.As President Xi Jinping starts his second term, the Chinese government, which once viewed the internet as a threat to its stranglehold on information, is increasingly viewing ambitious titans like Tencent and Alibaba as useful partners.But as the Trump administration moves to counter Chinas tech prowess, Beijings tighter grip could pose a threat to the countrys competitiveness, and to the innovation that has made Chinese tech firms global heavyweights.Meanwhile, a top U.S. trade delegation heads to China this week armed with tough talk about Beijings trade practices, but with little consensus about what concessions the U.S. should demand._____ In Israel, a new law giving the prime minister and defense minister the authority to go to war without cabinet approval is drawing criticism that it concentrates too much power in the hands of a few.The laws passing was initially overshadowed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus dramatic news conference the same night on a huge cache of stolen Iranian nuclear plans.Israel says the plans prove that Iran was lying for years about its nuclear program. The claim has been embraced by the Trump administration, in a stark divergence from its European allies._____ Sri Lankans were all set to celebrate Vesak  the holiday this week commemorating Buddhas birth, enlightenment and death  when the government stepped in.The celebrations had become too indulgent, a state directive warned. The commemoration should be a time for prayer and meditation, not fun and games.In the end, a compromise was reached, but not before the government had made its point about excess and garish displays.We want people to focus on Lord Buddhas birth, the spirituality, one Buddhist said. This shouldnt become a Mickey Mouse religion._____ Mohamed Salah is European soccers breakout star this season, scoring 43 goals in 48 games and helping Liverpool F.C. reach its first Champions League final in more than a decade.His Muslim faith  and his unabashed public displays of it  have also made him a figure of considerable significance. At a time of rising Islamophobia in Britain, Mr. Saleh, is not just accepted, but adored. (He is already a star in his native Egypt.)He is someone who embodies Islams values and wears his faith on his sleeve, said an official at the Muslim Council of Britain. He is not the solution to Islamophobia, but he can play a major role.Business Xeroxs planned merger with Fujifilm of Japan looks to be in trouble. Under pressure from shareholders who oppose the deal, its chairman, chief executive and other officials said they would resign. Cambridge Analytica will file for bankruptcy and cease most operations. The embattled political consulting firm used Facebook data to profile and target voters while advising the Trump campaign in 2016. Gibson, the maker of electric guitars cherished by Elvis, Keith Richards and others, filed for bankruptcy. Instagram added a new bully filter to weed out comments aimed at harassing its 800 million users. Women are paid less than men, and a common interview question about prior salary fuels that pay gap. Some cities and states are banning the question. U.S. stocks were lower. Heres a snapshot of global markets.In the News In Libya, gunmen stormed the electoral commission in Tripoli, killing at least six people. The Islamic State claimed responsibility. [The New York Times] Riot police in South Korea clashed with activists trying to erect a statue symbolizing the plight of Koreans forced to work in Japan during the colonial era. [The Asahi Shimbun] A judge in Myanmar said he would accept evidence from a police captain who testified about a plan to entrap two Reuters reporters arrested in December. [The New York Times] Fourteen of the worlds 20 most polluted cities are in India, according to the World Health Organization. [BBC] The Philippines is one of the top recruiting pools for U.S. school districts facing budget cuts and teacher shortages. [The New York Times] A humpback whale baby boom: Pregnancy rates in oceans near Antarctica are high, according to a study that shows the species is rebounding. [The New York Times]Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Traveling the U.S. is a great way to learn about civil rights. How to handle an old boss who wont let go. Recipe of the day: Flavorful salmon in 20 minutes.Noteworthy Ecstasy may help soldiers: A study suggests that therapy combined with the drug MDMA could be useful when traditional treatments for post-traumatic stress disorder have failed. A case of ecological suicide (and its not us). Scientists found a bacteria that essentially pollutes itself to death  gorging on glucose until its own acidic waste kills off the entire population. When a U.S. high school student wore a Chinese-style dress to her prom, the reaction of Asian-Americans was blistering. But in Asia, many people proclaimed it as a victory for Chinese culture.Back StoryThe Anne Frank House in Amsterdam opened as a museum 58 years ago today.And while currently more than 1.2 million visitors flock to the museum every year, back in the 1950s the canal house was on the verge of being demolished.The institution was saved from demolition by the Anne Frank Foundation, founded in 1957 to preserve the place where Anne Frank wrote her diary.Together with her parents, sister, and four others, Anne lived in the annex of the canal house from July 1942 until August 1944, when they were arrested during a Nazi raid. (Its still unclear who betrayed the family to the Nazis, but an F.B.I. agent reopened the case in 2017.)The museum is currently renovating to prepare for a new generation of visitors. The Anne Frank House is one of multiple institutions that hopes to educate younger people about the Holocaust and anti-Semitism.The museum faces a practical challenge: The tiny, cramped attic can accommodate only so many people at once.Otto Frank  Annes father and the only member of the family to survive the Holocaust  attended the opening in 1960, saying he hoped that the museum would be a place where Annes ideals will find their realization.Claire Moses wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
