 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:A minefield set by Mueller President Trumps lawyers have been trying to talk him out of accepting an interview with investigators for the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Legal experts say the questions Mr. Mueller wants to ask show why a meeting would be risky.Mr. Trump would need a detailed command of a range of issues, and his lawyers dont know exactly what the special counsel has learned. Read our story, and if you missed it yesterday, heres an annotated list of the questions themselves.As the president often likes to say, Well see what happens. A group of House Republicans has drafted articles of impeachment against the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, over the Justice Departments investigations of the president and his associates. On Tuesday, Mr. Rosenstein warned that the department is not going to be extorted.The U.S. and Europe, divided The Trump administration has embraced Israeli claims that the Iran nuclear deal is flawed because it is based on false pretenses.Thats not how its seen in Europe, where officials said Israels disclosures broke little new ground and only reinforced the case for the 2015 agreement.President Trump has threatened to scrap the deal this month. U.S. allies in Europe are also annoyed at Washingtons last-minute decision to delay aluminum and steel tariffs, as they want permanent exemptions.A lobbyists influential role Richard Smotkin, a lobbyist and friend of Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, helped set Mr. Pruitts agenda during a visit to Morocco in December. Months later, Mr. Smotkin was hired by the government of Morocco as a $40,000-a-month contractor.Congress has asked if there was a legitimate reason for Mr. Pruitt to travel to Morocco. And the swiftness with which Mr. Smotkin received the Morocco contract has raised questions about whether the trip helped him secure the deal.Mr. Pruitt is facing at least 11 investigations into his travel and spending, and two of his top aides resigned recently. Separately on Tuesday, a coalition led by California sued the Trump administration over the E.P.A.s effort to weaken auto emissions rules.The bugs of summer The number of people getting diseases transmitted by mosquito, tick and flea bites has more than tripled in the U.S. in recent years, health officials reported on Tuesday.Warmer weather and increased plane travel are just some of the contributing factors. For most mosquito-related diseases, there are no vaccines and no treatment. Here are some tips for protecting yourself and your family.Getting the royal cold shoulder Its the social event of the year, and Britains tabloids arent invited.Kensington Palace is letting only one reporter into the chapel for the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on May 19.The British royal family has long had a symbiotic relationship with the news media. But Harry and his brother, Prince William, have been scarred by the death of their mother, Princess Diana, while in a car being chased by paparazzi. With the wedding approaching, here are the answers to a (growing) list of frequently asked questions about the event.Business  Many once vibrant cities across the Midwest and Northeast are struggling with high unemployment and opioid addiction, but there are lessons from Rust Belt cities that  still shine. We have a responsibility to move forward. That was Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, announcing improved privacy controls and new products at the companys annual developer conference.Among those products: a dating service. U.S. stocks were mixed on Tuesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Your brain can trick you into trusting people who sound like they know what theyre talking about. How to sell your phone safely. Recipe of the day: Chocolate chip cookies offer midweek smiles.Noteworthy Not from The OnionDr. Harold Bornstein, a longtime personal physician to President Trump, said that two Trump aides conducted a raid of his Manhattan office in February 2017 after he told The Times that the president takes a drug for hair growth. Big brands lead the Tony paradeTina Feys Mean Girls and SpongeBob SquarePants received the most nominations on Tuesday, with 12 each. Heres the full list.Our chief theater critics also discussed their reactions to a slim Broadway season. In defense of fried artichokesAfter an Israeli rabbi declared the classic dish nonkosher, Italian Jews rallied behind their beloved treat.Read more from this weeks Food section here. Catching up with Kanye WestThe rapper has been quite chatty lately, especially in a pair of interviews that came out on Tuesday.He suggested slavery was a choice (Twitter was not amused) and discussed his fraught relationships with two presidents. Heres a guide to his comments. On the hook, happilyThe N.H.L. playoffs are in full swing, and Las Vegas sportsbooks could incur seven-figure losses if the citys new team, the Golden Knights, wins the Stanley Cup. Best of late-night TVImagine if President Trump had a list of questions for the special counsel. Seth Meyers did. Quotation of the dayMueller knows all kinds of things  we dont know exactly what he knows  and these are both broad and detailed questions, making real land mines. Sol Weisenberg, who was a deputy independent counsel in the Whitewater investigation, on the questions submitted to the White House. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. What were readingSam Sifton, our food editor, recommends this piece in Longreads, an excerpt from a new biography of Edward Abbey, the heavy-drinking, philandering desert rat who wrote lyrically about wilderness and critically about public land use. It will make you want to head to the desert and drive, Mr. Sifton says.Back StoryThe newspaper Pravda officially began publishing in Russia this week in 1912, offering Vladimir Lenin a megaphone for communist thought. (Pravda, which means truth, was probably historys most inaccurately named publication, The Times once noted.)One of Pravdas early editors was Joseph Stalin. With the publication Izvestia, which means news, it became a propaganda tool of the Soviet Union. The papers titles also led to a refrain in Soviet life: There is no news in Pravda and no truth in Izvestia.ImageA bust of Vladimir Lenin at Pravdas offices in Moscow.CreditSergei Ilnitsky/European Pressphoto AgencyWith a circulation of 11 million at its peak  aided by mandatory subscriptions for government organizations  Pravda spoke with the absolute, leaden authority of the Kremlin, The Times wrote in 1996.After the breakup of the Soviet Union  in 1991, Pravda lost its captive audience. The next year, it lamented in a note to readers the market forces that had led to a brief shutdown:Under the Czar, the newspaper was closed nine times, then four under the Provisional Government, and then in August 1991. The time has come to put us on our knees once again. Some politicians think that 80 years of Pravda can be struck out of history.The paper was later bought by two Greek capitalists, but it still struggled, briefly shutting down again in 1996. Today, its circulation is about 100,000.Robb Todd wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
