Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.This week: Do we still have an acid rain problem? Are electric cars really clean? And whats been happening at the E.P.A.?Is acid rain still a thing? You remember acid rain, right?The fight to protect forests, streams and lakes from the effects of what is now often referred to as acid deposition is one of the great environmental success stories in the United States and Western Europe. But acid rain is still a problem in some parts of the world, notably India and much of Asia.In case youve forgotten, acid rain is produced primarily by emissions of sulfur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen from coal and other fossil-fuel-burning power plants and vehicles. The gases react with water vapor to form acids, which are washed out of the air by rain, snow, hail or even fog.The precipitation makes wetlands more acidic, which can be lethal for some fish. It also leaches aluminum from the soil, which can be toxic to both plants and aquatic organisms. The acidic water can also corrode stone buildings, sculptures and other objects.Acid rain can show up far from the source of the emissions, as the gases are transported by winds. In the United States, when the environmental impact of acid rain was first recognized as a problem in the 1960s and 70s, scientists saw the effects in Northeastern forests, but traced the sulfur and nitrogen emissions to coal-fired plants in the Ohio Valley.The passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970 led to some emissions cuts, and amendments in 1990 mandated sharper reductions, especially of sulfur dioxide.The act has worked well, said Douglas A. Burns, a biogeochemist with the United States Geological Survey in Troy, N.Y. Rainwater in the Northeast has seen about a tenfold decrease in acidity since the 1970s, Dr. Burns said.Its a great example of an environmental problem where we studied it, we took some action, and the problem improved, he said.Some impacts linger, however. Soils that acid rain has stripped of calcium ions, for example, take a long time to recover. The ions are eventually replenished through weathering of rocks. We see the improvement, its just kind of slow, Dr. Burns said.Western Europe, where the impact of acid rain was first observed in Scandinavia, has seen great improvements as well, also a result of tighter environmental laws. But elsewhere around the world the situation is mixed, Dr. Burns said.There have been improvements in some former Soviet bloc countries in Eastern Europe, notably the Czech Republic. They had a horrible problem in the 1980s, Dr. Burns said, but have made great progress since becoming independent in the 1990s.But China is only roughly where the United States and Europe were in the 1980s. They seem to be just starting to bring it a little under control, he said. Chinas emissions have resulted in acid rain affecting its neighbors Japan and South Korea.Acid rain is still a big problem in India, where emissions are increasing, Dr. Burns said. The impacts include corrosion of the marble facade of the Taj Mahal in Agra.Your burning question: Are electric cars really reducing pollution?Were here to answer your questions about climate change. Send us yours via the form at the bottom of our climate Q. and A. Bhavya Sinha in Patna, India, asked us about electric cars:If most of the electricity is being produced by burning fossil fuels, how much pollution does using electric cars really reduce?Its true that in places where coal-fired power plants produce the biggest share of the electricity, the potential for electric cars to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is a serious question. A 2016 article in Scientific American argued that in coal-heavy places like Minnesota, driving electric might not be any better than driving a gasoline-powered vehicle.Nonetheless, theres a strong case to be made that driving an electric vehicle produces fewer greenhouse gases than the average new gas-powered vehicle anywhere in the United States.Thats the conclusion of research published in 2015 by the Union of Concerned Scientists, and electric cars look even better in an update to the report released in March. The group performed a well-to-wheels analysis of what it takes to run the different types of vehicles, said David Reichmuth, an author of the study and senior engineer in the groups clean vehicles program.The state-by-state variation is striking: To beat electric cars in Michigan, your gas vehicle would need to get 38 miles to the gallon. To beat electric cars in upstate New York, though, that gas car would have to do better than 191 m.p.g. Good luck with that.These issues are not just playing out across the United States. While comparisons can be difficult and the quality of data varies from country to country, its clear that driving an electric vehicle in a place like Norway, which produces energy almost entirely from renewable sources of power, is cleaner than running one in China, which is still heavily dependent on coal.Dr. Reichmuth noted, however, that China had committed to phase out coal over time, so with all countries, its important to consider where they are going. And, he added, You dont have to wait until the grid is perfect, you dont have to wait until the cars are perfect, to go down that path.Whats the latest at the E.P.A.?A few things since we last spoke:Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, testified on Capitol Hill last Thursday, mostly about spending and ethics. He had an easier time than expected, though he is currently the subject of 11 federal investigations. (Our reporter Coral Davenport wrote an article for Times Insider about covering Mr. Pruitt.)So, Mr. Pruitt appeared to pass the test and still has his job. However, two of his top aides resigned Tuesday amid increased scrutiny.We also reported that Mr. Pruitt allowed a lobbyist friend to play an unusually influential role in setting his agenda during a visit in December to Morocco. That friend was then hired by the government of Morocco as a $40,000-a-month foreign agent. In addition, a different Washington consultant played a central role in attempting to set up a trip to Australia by Mr. Pruitt. (That trip did not happen.)Separately, California led a coalition in suing the Trump administration over car emission rules. The E.P.A. has been trying to loosen the rules by rolling back Obama administration regulations. But the California-led coalition is arguing that the E.P.A. is violating the Clean Air Act.Wed love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what were doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.
