Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.49 QuestionsThe special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has a long list of questions that he wants to ask President Trump  and on Monday that list became public. On Late Night on Tuesday, Seth Meyers said hed be excited to finally get some answers.Robert Mueller wants to ask Trump 49 questions  which is about 49 more than Sarah Sanders has ever answered.  SETH MEYERSThen Meyers dared to imagine what questions Trump might like to ask Mueller, if the tables were turned.Trump has a list of questions hed like to ask Robert Mueller. We got our hands on it, its pretty interesting. So here they are: Donald Trumps questions for Robert Mueller: Is it pronounced muh-ler, myoo-ler, or mueslix? Does impeachment have anything to do with peaches? Why are there underpants but no overpants? How come everyone yells when I get close to an outlet? Are you the pig farmer from Babe, and if so, can the pig really talk? If I catch Jeff Sessions, do I get to keep his pot of gold? Is Mike Pence a ghost, and if so, can everyone see him, or just me? Is it true birds poop and pee out of the same hole? What about women? And finally  how do you president?  SETH MEYERSA Song for Trumps ScheduleStephen Colbert took a look at Trumps daily schedule for Tuesday, and noticed there was very little on it. The last item was at 1:45 p.m., prompting Colbert to sing a slightly tweaked version of Dolly Partons famous song 9 to 5.Working 11 to 2, what a way to run a nation, Just three things to do, then its basically vacation.Got a tweet or two, just to add to the confusionAnd pray that they dont convict you of collusion!  STEPHEN COLBERTIdiotJames Corden was tickled by an NBC News report that John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, has repeatedly referred to Trump as an idiot. Kelly considers himself to be the only thing standing between the president and a disaster of his own making, according to the report.According to reports, White House chief of staff John Kelly has referred to Trump as, quote, an idiot. Yeah, he called him an idiot  but remember, its O.K. for John Kelly to mock Donald Trumps intelligence, because hes not a female comedian at the White House correspondents dinner.  JAMES CORDENKelly said Trumps an idiot and that, quote, Weve got to save him from himself. Save Trump from himself? No, just cut him loose! Save the rest of us!  JAMES CORDENThe Punchiest Punchlines (Facebook Dating Edition)As of this month, Michael Cohen reportedly now owes $280,000 to back taxes. Yeah, isnt that incredible? Theres a porn star named Back Taxes.  CONAN OBRIENWhole Foods is under fire for helping fund an Asian restaurant called Yellow Fever. Yeah, the idea came from their C.E.O., who goes by the name White Idiot.  CONAN OBRIENIt is sweet that Zuckerberg says this is for building long-term relationships. Just imagine, you meet someone on Facebook, you get married, you have a kid, and because you didnt read the terms of service Facebook takes the kid and sells it to Cambridge Analytica. So beautiful.  TREVOR NOAH, on Mark Zuckerbergs announcement that Facebook will soon unveil an online dating featureThe Bits Worth WatchingThe next-best thing (next-worst?) to actually seeing Evanescence cover Kendrick Lamar: Ariana Grande and the Roots pretending to be Evanescence, covering Kendrick Lamar.Wherein Corden and Benedict Cumberbatch upstage each other, in increasingly ludicrous fashion.What Were Excited About on Wednesday NightMichael Avenatti, the outspoken lawyer for Stephanie Clifford  the former pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels  will appear on The Late Show on Wednesday.Also, Check This OutFor decades, the singer R. Kelly has weathered allegations of sexual impropriety and has settled a slew of lawsuits. But with the #MuteRKelly campaign catching on, he may finally be unable to outrun his reputation.
