As the former director of the N.S.A. and the C.I.A. under George W. Bush, youre part of a crop of ex-intelligence leaders who have recently joined the cable-news circuit. Why? Were being talked about far more, so we need to have more of a direct dialogue. Were not totally enthused by that. Secrecy is key to successful espionage.So how do you see your role in the media? You and others are out there, frankly, being coy in talking about whats going on with this White House. Well, I wouldnt use the word coy. I mean, there are limits to what you can say.Your new book, The Assault on Intelligence, suggests that President Trump ignores information from the intelligence community that he disagrees with and embraces information that suits his policy needs. Isnt that the case with most presidents? Intelligence sets the boundaries of legitimate policy discussion, so that decision-making is based on an agreed objective view of truth. But the Muslim ban, for example, was based on a view of an apocalyptic danger to the United States from immigrants. None of that was true.What does that mean for analysts who have to brief this White House? Im not in the room, but the meetings have been described to me as fairly chaotic  the presidents mind jumps from intelligence to the press to policy to the press back to intelligence. One fellow who briefed President Trump early on said, If we could have recorded the conversation and made a transcript, it wouldve sounded like a James Joyce novel.Do you worry that the criticisms from you and others give credence to the administrations claim of a so-called deep state? There is a danger when the institutions of government push back against policies they believe to be unwise or especially unlawful. They have to be careful that in pushing back, they dont violate their own norms. I think the intelligence community has probably leaked some information it shouldnt have leaked.Do you think those leaks reflect a concern and panic within these agencies or departments? Theres a one-to-one relationship between leaks and how people believe they are being treated. It doesnt take a criminal conspiracy to do this. Its just too many people talking about too many things at too many bars.But when it came to Edward Snowden, you called him a defector. Do you think differently now about leaks and the role of secrecy in a democracy? No, not at all. Im not endorsing these leaks. Im telling you that leaking information that should not be public is violating our own norms, and we shouldnt be doing it.You write that you never visited Russia when you were head of the C.I.A., saying it wasnt even on the radar. Do you have regrets about that now? Of course. We took our eye off the ball during that period, while the Russians began to master this new approach to international conflict based on information dominance. They want to get into the American information space to divide and distract us.People often like to cite Vladimir Putins K.G.B. background in thinking about how he approaches this president. It can be a useful lens. But the most benign explanation as to why Trump seems to not criticize Putin is a phrase from the Soviet period: polezni durak, the useful idiot, the sort of person the Kremlin secretly held in contempt but went all out to exploit.Warrantless wiretapping, torture and the faulty intelligence that led us into the Iraq War  a lot of these issues began when you were part of the Bush administration. Do you look back on that now and see why so many doubt the intelligence agencies? Uh, no. Sorry to disappoint. We were attempting to be fact-based and getting it wrong. Thats different from whats going on now, where reality is something that some people believe they can create for their own convenience.
