Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Stop TalkingRudolph Giuliani this week directly contradicted past public statements from President Trump when he told Fox News that Trump was aware of Michael Cohens hush-money payment to Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic film star known as Stormy Daniels  and that Trump had even reimbursed Cohen for it.On The Tonight Show, Jimmy Fallon said that maybe Giuliani, not Clifford, was the one who needed some incentive to stay quiet.Last night Rudy Giuliani went on Fox News and revealed that Trump knew about and paid for Stormy Danielss hush money. Even Kanye was like, You should probably stop talking.  JIMMY FALLONGiuliani said that Trump knew about and paid for Stormy Danielss hush money  which explains Trumps newest idea: paying Rudy Giuliani $130,000 in hush money.  JIMMY FALLONIt was 90 degrees in New York today. People were sweating like President Trump watching Rudy Giuliani on Hannity.  JIMMY FALLONWith Giuliani, Everyones a CriticSeth Meyers and Stephen Colbert both addressed Mr. Giuliani directly. They said they were not impressed by his performance.Rudy, youre not helping. I got this. Officer, you cant accuse my buddy here of speeding  he was way too drunk to do that.  STEPHEN COLBERTYou were on Sean Hannitys show. You cracked under no pressure. If Rudy Giuliani had been O.J.s lawyer, he would have said, Hey, even if your gloves dont fit, you can still stab somebody!  SETH MEYERSAnd Trevor Noah was simply stupefied.Wow, imagine a P.R. crisis so bad that your best move is to admit you paid hush money to a porn star.  TREVOR NOAHThe Bits Worth WatchingTurns out its a bad idea to gamble away your soul  even to a friend.James Corden found himself mysteriously turning into Drew Carey.Also, Check This OutEpisodes of Conan will be half as long starting next year, clocking in at just half an hour. Heres why.
