President Trump spoke to reporters Friday morning at the White House and at Joint Base Andrews on his way to Dallas to speak at the National Rifle Associations annual convention. He was asked about comments his lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, made about payments to the pornographic actress Stephanie Clifford, who goes by the stage name Stormy Daniels. Mr. Trump said Mr. Giuliani did not have his facts straight, and that everything about the payments has been said incorrectly. Mr. Trump also said a date and location had been set for a summit meeting with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, and that his administration was in constant contact about the fate of three Americans held in North Korea.Following is a transcript of those comments, as prepared by the White House. It has been lightly edited for clarity. The first section is at the White House.REPORTER: Mr. President, hows Rudy doing?REPORTER: When did you find out?TRUMP: I tell you what  Rudy is a great guy, but he just started a day ago. But he really has his heart into it. Hes working hard. Hes learning the subject matter. And hes going to be issuing a statement too. But he is a great guy. He knows its a witch hunt. Thats what he knows. Hes seen a lot of them. And he said hes never seen anything so horrible.As an example, 33,000 emails requested by Congress with a subpoena, and they get burned, they get deleted. And nobody says anything. Give me a break.So Rudy knows its a witch hunt. He started yesterday. Hell get his facts straight. Hes a great guy. But what he does is he feels its a very bad thing for our country, and he happens to be right.REPORTER: When did you find out what the retainer was being spent on?TRUMP: Well, youre going to find out, because were going to give a full list. And people know. And virtually everything said has been said incorrectly, and its been said wrong, or its been covered wrong by the press  just like NBC and ABC yesterday covered the story wrong.But youll be finding out. Its very  its actually REPORTER: Mr. President, are you TRUMP: Wait a minute. Its actually very simple. Its actually very simple. But there has been a lot of misinformation, really. People wanting to say  and I say, you know what, learn before you speak. Its a lot easier.REPORTER: Mr. President, when are these Americans going to be released from North Korea?TRUMP: Were having very substantive talks with North Korea. And a lot of things have already happened with respect to the hostages. And I think youre going to see very good things. As I said yesterday, stayed tuned. I think youre going to be seeing very, very good things.And also, the trip is being scheduled. We now have a date and we have a location. Well be announcing it soon.REPORTER: Mr. President, have you changed your mind at all about being willing to sit with Robert Mueller?TRUMP: Well, the problem with sitting is this: You have a group of investigators, and they say that I am not a target. And Im not a target. But you have a group of investigators that are all Democrats. In some cases, they went to the Hillary Clinton celebration that turned out to be a funeral. So you have all these investigators; theyre Democrats. In all fairness, Bob Mueller worked for Obama for eight years.If you look at the statements that were made, if you take a look, as an example, at the Rod Rosenstein letter to me, prior to the firing of James Comey, just read it; put it in the air. Your viewers dont know about it. Put that letter on the air. It very much speaks very loudly, and thats just one thing.So I would say this: If I could be  I would love to speak. I would love to. Nobody wants to speak more than me  in fact, against my lawyers, because most lawyers, they never speak on anything. I would love to speak, because weve done nothing wrong. There was no collusion with the Russians. There was nothing. There was no obstruction.You know, very funny  if you fight back, because you people say something wrong, or they say something wrong, or they leak, which theyve been doing; if you fight back, they say, oh, thats obstruction of justice. If somebody says something wrong, and you fight back, they say thats obstruction of justice. Its nonsense.So let me just REPORTER: Are you TRUMP: Wait, wait. Let me just tell you. So I would love to speak. I would love to go. Nothing I want to do more, because we did nothing wrong. We ran a great campaign. We won easily. We won that easily: 306 to  I think, it was 223. We won it easily. That was a great victory. That was a great day for this country.We just had new jobs numbers out. You saw we broke 4  3.9 percent. I would love to go. I would love to speak. But I have to find that were going to be fairly.REPORTER: Are you sure TRUMP: Wait, wait. I have to find that were going to be treated fairly, because everybody sees it now, and it is a pure witch hunt. Right now, its a pure witch hunt. Why dont we have Republicans looking also? Why arent we having Republican people doing what all these Democrats are doing? It is a very unfair thing. If I thought it was fair, I would override my lawyer.REPORTER: (Inaudible) the jobs report today?TRUMP: I thought the jobs report was very good. The big thing to me was cracking four. That hasnt been done in a long time; youll tell me how long. But it hasnt been done in a long time. Well full employment. Were doing great. The stock market is doing  I guess its up 35 percent since the election.And now I think, really, theyre waiting to see whats going to happen on trade, because were going to have some incredible trade deals announced. My people are coming back right now from China, and we will be doing something, one way or the other, with respect to whats happening in China.And let me say this: I have great respect for President Xi. Thats why were being so nice. And we have a great relationship. But we have to bring fairness into trade between the U.S. and China. And well do it.Later, Mr. Trump spoke again to reporters at Joint Base Andrews before boarding Air Force One, along with John F. Kelly, the retired Marine general who is the presidents chief of staff.TRUMP: I want to just tell you something. General Kelly is doing a fantastic job. There has been such false reporting about our relationship. We have a great relationship. Hes doing a great job as chief of staff. I could not be more happy. So I just want to tell you that.The New York Times has falsely reported. Theyve said things that are absolutely false. So I just want to tell you that. And, general, you may have something JOHN F. KELLY: Well, I would just say its an absolute privilege to work for a president that has gotten the economy going. Were about to have a breakthrough, I believe, on North Korea. The jobs report today. I mean, everything is going phenomenally well. Attacking the opioid crisis. Its nothing less than brilliant whats been accomplished in 15 months, I believe.REPORTER: Mr. President, why did you change your story on Stormy Daniels?TRUMP: Im not changing any stories. All Im telling you is that this country is right now running so smooth. And to be bringing up that kind of crap, and to be bringing up witch hunts all the time  thats all you want to talk about. Youre going to see REPORTER: But you said THE PRESIDENT: Excuse me REPORTER:  on Air Force One that you did not know (inaudible).TRUMP: No, but you have to  excuse me. You take a look at what I said. You go back and take a look. Youll see what I said.REPORTER: You said, No, when I asked you, Did you know about the payment?TRUMP: Excuse me, you go take a look at what we said. But this is a witch hunt like nobody has ever seen before. And what they should do is look at the other side, where terribly bad things have happened, where terribly bad things have been done.But what I do want you to do is look at our economy. Today, we broke 4 percent; 3.9 percent we hit today for the first time in many, many years. Were really proud of it, and well talk to you folks later. But I will tell you  I will tell you this, I will tell you this: When Rudy made the statement  Rudy is great  but Rudy had just started, and he wasnt totally familiar with every  you know, with everything. And Rudy  we love Rudy, hes a special guy. What he really understands is that this is a witch hunt. He understands that probably better than anybody.REPORTER: When did you know TRUMP: Excuse me, excuse me. But Rudy  Rudy understands this better than anybody. But when he made a certain statement  he just started yesterday. So thats it.So bottom line is  bottom line is: I want to talk to the people in charge, if they can prove that its a fair situation. The problem we have is that you have 13 people  theyre are all Democrats, and theyre real Democrats; theyre angry Democrats. And thats not a fair situation.Thank you very much.REPORTER: (Inaudible.)TRUMP: We have a chance of bringing  we have a chance  were doing very well with the hostages. Were in constant contact with the leadership. We are in constant contact with North Korea. Weve actually worked out a time and a place which will be announced shortly and very soon.REPORTER: Where?TRUMP: I figured you would ask that question.REPORTER: (Inaudible.)TRUMP: But  wait a minute REPORTER: (Inaudible) or South Korea, are they on the table?TRUMP: Not really. Not at this moment, certainly not.REPORTER: Youre not planning to withdraw (inaudible)?TRUMP: No. No. And we havent been asked to. Now, I have to tell you, at some point into the future, I would like to save the money. You know, we have 32,000 troops there. But I think a lot of great things will happen. But troops are not on the table. Absolutely.Thank you very much.
