THE ASSAULT ON INTELLIGENCE American National Security In An Age Of LiesBy Michael V. Hayden 257 pp. Penguin Press. $28.Michael Hayden  the retired Air Force general who has directed both the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency, now a principal in a Washington consulting group  went on a fact-finding mission in August 2017. The subject of his inquiry, however, was not a foreign espionage service. What Hayden was after were clues to why America had elected Donald Trump.He began by talking to several dozen of his brothers friends, all Trump supporters, over beers in a Pittsburgh bar. I knew many of the participants, indeed had grown up with several, Hayden writes. But we could have been from different planets.While Hayden was curious about and civil to the men and women who voted for Trump, he is less kind to the president himself. Trumps statements during the campaign drove Hayden to become more involved and outspoken than he anticipated in the months before the election. Indeed, it is something of an irony that this military and intelligence veteran  whose 2016 book, Playing to the Edge, defended controversial policies of surveillance, interrogation and targeted killing  is among Trumps most prominent and incisive critics.Hayden, a self-described internationalist, opposes Trumps trade, immigration and foreign policies. He also blasts Trumps record of exaggeration, falsehood, misstatement and conspiratorial thinking. All candidates shape their message, he writes, but Trump just seemed to say whatever came into his head. Having led one agency where some operatives wore T-shirts saying Deny everything, admit nothing, Hayden is nonetheless impassioned about the importance of empirical data to decision-making.ImageHayden is an institutionalist. What concerns him is the degree to which policymakers operate according to established roles and norms. He sees the virtues of bureaucratic procedure. The idea of this book, he writes, is not that civil war or societal collapse is necessarily imminent or inevitable here in America  thank goodness  but that the structures, processes, and attitudes we rely on to prevent those kinds of occurrences are under stress, and that many of the premises on which we have based our governance, policy and security are now challenged, eroded or simply gone.Whatever disagreements Hayden may have had with George W. Bush and Barack Obama  and he argues that several of Obamas policies were ill conceived  Trumps predecessors, he says, largely respected the independence and judgments of the bureaucracy. Trump does not. He not only accuses the F.B.I., Justice Department and other agencies of forming a deep state, but also seeks to challenge, disrupt and exert control over them. Trump does not think in institutional terms, but in personal ones.These lines of criticism intersect over Russia. Hayden acknowledges that intelligence agencies were slow to pick up on the Russian challenge to United States elections: Committed to a path of cyber dominance for ourselves, we seemed to lack the doctrinal vision to fully understand what the Russians were up to with their more full-spectrum information dominance. That lack of vision was compounded by the reluctance of both the Obama and Trump administrations to counterattack. Russia has been actively seeking to damage the fabric of American democracy, Hayden writes, and the Trump administrations glandular aversion to even looking at this squarely, much less mounting a concerted response to it, is an appalling national security lapse.For a longtime spook, Hayden is a breezy and direct writer. He reduces complex issues of cyber and information warfare to essentials, and his polemic is leavened with humor and sympathy. He is at his best, though, when he shifts to a purely analytical tone. He coolly forecasts the direction of America under Trump, explains the intelligence that foreign governments are likely to collect from the presidents Twitter feed and describes the benefits Russia drew from the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting between Kremlin-connected Russian attorneys and senior Trump campaign officials.Reading this book, I could not help being struck by the divide separating officials like Hayden from followers of Trump. Haydens narrative is filled with accolades for media institutions and figures distrusted by large numbers of Americans. He makes frequent mention of various panels and conferences he has taken part in and celebrities he has met. But his laudable case for the intelligence community does not dwell on the things the community has gotten wrong, from the fall of the Soviet Union to 9/11 to Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. Nor does he reckon with the questionable practices of officials who leak secrets, misrepresent themselves to Congress and respond in kind to Trumps outlandish rhetoric.Haydens Assault on Intelligence, then, is more than an indictment of Trump. It is evidence of the social and cultural divide between everyday Americans and the highest levels of their government. What we learn from Hayden is that the upper echelons of the intelligence community are filled with patriots who can tell you what is happening in a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan  but are at a loss for words when the scene shifts to a Pennsylvania bar.
