To the Editor:Re Questions for President Show Depth of Inquiry Into Russian Meddling (front page, May 1):In other investigations, suspects dont get to decide whether to be interviewed; they show up voluntarily or are subpoenaed. In other investigations, relevant figures dont get a cheat sheet of the questions to be asked; they do not have the luxury of crafting responses in advance that may be truthy, but dishonest.If we really believe that the president is not above the law  and I would hope all of us do  the president should not be able to avoid the legal accountability and vulnerability that any other suspect has to confront. The health of our democracy demands it.CHAVA CASPER, TEANECK, N.J.To the Editor:The questions for President Trump boil down to the classic what did you know and when did you know it? But beyond that, these questions, by asking the president about his thoughts and state of mind, reflect a perjury trap, a breathtaking dissolution of executive privilege and the likely criminalization of private thoughts.No doubt the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has cooperating witnesses who will contradict whatever the president says, setting up perjury charges. Similar questions could be used to bring down nearly any president with political enemies involved in controversial or scandalous matters.PAUL HUDSON, SARASOTA, FLA.The writer is an attorney.To the Editor:I am terribly disappointed that The Times has chosen to print the leaked questions from the special counsels investigation. Surely The Times understands that the probity of this investigation (and lack of leaks until now) is the basis for public confidence in its findings?You have undermined over a year of work and the hopes of millions of Americans that justice and democracy will be protected. Shame on you!ELIZABETH STORY, ESSEX, MASS.To the Editor:Your front-page story details the dozens of inquiries that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, wants to ask of President Trump. But there is one fatal flaw to these inquiries. It is well documented that Mr. Trump tells lies at a rate of about six per day. How can anyone trust Mr. Trumps answers, even under oath, when his default response mode seems to be to lie to the public?MARSHA BERKOWITZ, NEW YORK
