WASHINGTON  President Trump trained his rancor on federal investigators on Monday and appeared to warn that negative material would emerge about the prosecutors leading the inquiry into Russias interference in the 2016 election.In a series of Twitter posts on Monday, the president said the investigation was being run by Democrats and raised the question of whether the special counsels work was being drawn out to influence the outcome of the coming midterm congressional elections, when Democrats could win enough seats to take control of the House and possibly the Senate.Just wait till the Courts get to see your unrevealed Conflicts of Interest, Mr. Trump wrote in one of the early-morning tweets.The veiled threat to the special counsel leading the inquiry and the suggestion of bias come at a time when Mr. Trumps legal team seems to be struggling to present a consistent message to the American public.The Republicans could lose control of the House and possibly the Senate in the elections, in part because of growing disapproval of the job Mr. Trump is doing. Mr. Trumps approval rating is at 41 percent, the lowest of presidents at this point in their first terms since President Jimmy Carter, who had a 40.5 percent approval rating at a comparable time in his administration.There is no indication that the special counsel investigation, led by Robert S. Mueller III, is being deliberately drawn out to manipulate votes. The special counsels office on Monday declined to comment on Mr. Trumps question.Mr. Trump regularly attacks the investigation, as he did on Monday, and has considered firing Mr. Mueller  a looming threat that has divided the Republican Party.Mr. Trump has recently taken the position that what the special counsel is investigating as possible obstruction of justice is, in reality, Mr. Trump fighting back against what he considers to be false accusations.The president has said that the investigation is led by Democrats, even though Mr. Mueller is a longtime Republican.In another tweet on Monday, Mr. Trump said the inquiry is rapidly losing credibility and referred to the Republican findings of the House Intelligence Committee  specifically that in a yearlong investigation, Republicans on the committee found there was no collusion between the Russians and the Trump campaign. Democrats on the committee issued a dissenting document.Last year, the chairman of the panel, Devin Nunes of California, stepped away from leading the Russia investigation over questions about his own credibility to run it in a fair and bipartisan manner.Mr. Trump has previously railed about 13 hardened Democrats on the special counsel team. At least 17 of the lawyers on the team have contributed to Democratic campaigns, according to records maintained by the Federal Election Commission. And three are registered Democrats, according to reports in The Washington Post and PolitiFact. But the political leanings of the other 14 are unclear.On Sunday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of Mr. Trumps lawyers, also suggested there are problems with the governments investigation.Theres no question that the amount of government misconduct is accumulating, Mr. Giuliani, a former federal prosecutor and New York City mayor, said on ABCs This Week. I happen to believe its greater than anybody realizes. Very embarrassing to my former Justice Department.Mr. Giuliani referenced a federal judges recent criticism of the special counsels fraud case against Mr. Trumps former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort. The judge, T.S. Ellis III, said on Friday that Mr. Mueller was more interested in Mr. Manaforts providing incriminating details about Mr. Trump than he is in Mr. Manaforts fraud charges.
