Debating the fate of Poland during the waning days of World War II, Winston Churchill is reported to have cautioned Joseph Stalin that he should to take into account the views of the Vatican. The Soviet leader interrupted Churchill: How many divisions does the pope of Rome have? Three decades later, Churchills admonition seemed prescient: The election of the Polish Cardinal Karol Wojtyla as Pope John Paul II in 1978 was a first step leading to the dismantling of Soviet Communism.Amid todays heated rhetoric on Europes refugee crisis, Central Europes populist leaders seem to paraphrase Stalin: How many elections has the pope won? It is a serious question. The day before Pope Francis issued an apostolic exhortation with the message that caring for migrants should be as important to Catholics as their opposition to abortion, Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary, a self-styled defender of Christianity, won a landslide electoral victory with the message that welcoming migrants is worse than abortion.Why are citizens in post-Communist countries with Catholic majorities unmoved by the message of Pope Francis? Why has the rise of right-wing parties like Law and Justice in Poland and Fidesz in Hungary, which claim a strong affiliation with Catholic identity and attract the support of many believers, resulted in open conflict with the Vatican? Does the rise of populism in Central Europe signal the return of religion or further secularization of society?Last year, Pew Research published a report on the role of religion in post-Communist countries that suggests some possible answers. The report makes clear that the resurgence of religion since the end of Communism has played out differently in the predominantly Orthodox countries of Eastern Europe than among the Catholic states of Central Europe. In the Orthodox countries like Russia, Bulgaria and Romania, there has been an upsurge of religious identity, but levels of religious practice are comparatively low. People define themselves as Orthodox Christians though they rarely go to church or read the Bible. For them, Orthodox identity is bound up with national identity, feelings of pride and cultural superiority. Sociologists call it belonging without believing.In historically Catholic countries like Poland, Hungary, Lithuania and the Czech Republic, the share of adults who identify as Catholic has declined since the end of Communism. Levels of church attendance and other measures of religious observance are generally higher than in their Orthodox neighbors, but in Catholic-majority countries there is also a growing tendency to view the church as a national institution rather than a spiritual one.In this context, tensions between the Vatican and Catholic communities in Central Europe should not come as a surprise. They are an expression of the new role of Europe in the Catholic world. We are accustomed to viewing Catholicism as a European religion, but that hasnt been the case in quite some time. Although 70 percent of Orthodox Christians live on the old continent, most Catholics today reside outside Europe  in Latin America and, increasingly, Asia and Africa.As the New York Times columnist Ross Douthat has argued, while much of the world is in love with Pope Francis, many believers and clergymen mistrust him and fear that his papacy might be a disaster. Rejection of the non-European pope is particularly strong in Central Europe. Many Catholics in Poland and Hungary view Pope Francis the way die-hard Communists and party apparatchiks viewed the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev during the height of Gorbymania in the late 1980s  a dangerous revisionist corrupted by media attention who threatens the integrity and power of their faith. In Poland, when people talk about the pope, they usually mean John Paul II.But the populist right and the Catholic Church in Central Europe are hardly a match made in heaven. For the populists, Christianity is not so much a relationship between man and God as a relation between one community and another. Populisms ascent can be more effectively explained by the publics fears about the spread of Islam rather than by any affinity with the religious teachings of Catholicism.A good Christian, not unlike a populist voter, is expected to live in constant fear. But while Christian believers should fear that they will do something wrong, populist voters constantly fear that others will do something wrong to them. In other words, the fear preached by the church is just the opposite of the politics of fear preached by the populists.Sociologists have demonstrated that practicing Catholics in Poland and Hungary are more likely than others to vote for right-wing populist parties. At the same time, the governments in Hungary and Poland do not miss an opportunity to show their commitment to the church, whether through rhetoric or with policies like strict abortion bans. The bishops of Central Europe have enjoyed these overtures. But they may want to rethink this policy. The romance between the church and the populist right could easily turn into a spiritual crisis.The dilemma that the Catholic Church faces in Central Europe is whether it is ready to allow populist leaders to speak not only in the name of the people but also in the name of God. Could an anti-populist backlash also turn against the church? Urban liberals in places like Poland, while sympathizing with Pope Francis message on issues such as climate change or the moral failings of contemporary society, increasingly see the Catholic Church as an enemy, while conservative believers are turning to populist politicians as their spiritual leaders. In the end, the rise of populism could achieve what Communists never managed to do: divorce church and society in Central Europe.
