(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. U.S. allies are annoyed, Japan is back in the game and NASA is heading to Mars. Heres what you need to know:  A sword of Damocles over the global economy.Many American allies did not conceal their annoyance with the Trump administrations last-minute decision sparing them from punitive aluminum and steel tariffs for another month.Given that South Korea has a permanent deal, and that reprieves for Australia, Argentina and Brazil are likely, the European Union could be the only U.S. ally at serious risk. Above, a steel mill in Germany.A rift with the E.U. would threaten any cooperation with the U.S. in pressuring China. Washington is already considering prohibiting Chinese citizens from performing sensitive research in the U.S. that could further strengthen Chinas move to high tech._____ Japans bold move.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced that he would host a meeting with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Premier Li Keqiang of China in Tokyo on May 9.The announcement thrusts Japan, sidelined in North Korea talks, back into the diplomatic fray. The meeting will also be a timely chance to discuss commercial ties.It will be the first visit to Tokyo by a South Korean president in more than six years. Mr. Li would be the first Chinese premier to visit Japan in eight years._____ President Trump responded to our publication of more than 40 questions the special counsel, Robert Mueller, above, would like to ask him. He said it was disgraceful that the questions had been leaked.The special counsels investigators read the questions in March to Mr. Trumps lawyers, who wrote them down. That list was provided to The Times by a person outside the presidents legal team.Here they are, with our annotations about what they tell us about Mr. Muellers inquiry into Russian influence on the U.S. presidential election and other matters.The reporter who obtained the list speaks about what they mean on our news podcast, The Daily._____ A trial for Cardinal Pell. But when?At least two more hearings must be held to determine what evidence is admissible and to set a date for George Pell, the Vaticans third-highest-ranking official, to stand trial in Melbourne on charges of sexual abuse. The process could take months.The case is a test of the Vaticans efforts to turn the corner on accountability after decades of abuse scandals. Its also a test for Australia, where criminal law offers defendants many protections, and where information related to criminal cases is restricted._____ Mission to Mars.NASAs InSight spacecraft, scheduled to launch on Saturday, aims to discover the red planets deep interior, and will be listening intently for marsquakes.Since there was not much interest in what the craft will find at the surface, a safe  that is, flat  landing spot was selected. (Kansas without the corn is how a mission scientist described it.)Explore the history of the many missions to Mars here (and if youre on a smartphone, youll get the augmented-reality version).Business Apple announced a $100 billion stock buyback plan as it reported its quarterly earnings. The buyback is by far the largest increase in Apples already historic record of returning capital to investors. A broad coalition of American states led by California sued the Environmental Protection Agency over car-emission standards, a move that could split the U.S. car market into two. Boeing bought KLX, an airplane parts supplier, for $4.25 billion. Profits for PetroChina, Chinas biggest oil producer, jumped 78 percent in the first quarter on rising fuel prices. Facebooks new privacy changes have become a financial nightmare for companies and programmers whose businesses relied on access to the social networks user data.  U.S. stocks were mixed. Heres a snapshot of global markets.In the News May Day marches and demonstrations were held across Asia: In Indonesia, above, 10,000 workers protested against outsourcing, and in South Korea, thousands called for a higher minimum wage. [A.P.] Iran called the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, a liar after he accused Tehran of lying for years about its efforts to build a nuclear weapon. [BBC] The Dominican Republic established ties with China, a move that furthers the international isolation of Taiwan. [The New York Times] The Japan Sumo Association has always cited tradition as a reason for barring women from the dohyo ring, but when this ban took effect in the 1,500-year-old sport is a mystery. [The Asahi Shimbun] Chinas censors may have their sights on another cuddly cartoon character turned subversive symbol: Peppa Pig. [The New York Times] A Chinese airplane passenger in Sichuan Province was detained and fined more than $10,000 after he pulled the escape hatch to get some fresh air. [South China Morning Post]Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Chocolate chip cookies are a midweek smile. Should you fix a small space or trade up for a bigger house? Declutter your computer and organize those open windows.Noteworthy What comedians do. The problem with Michelle Wolfs performance at the White House Correspondents Association dinner on Saturday wasnt her jokes, it was the event itself, our chief TV critic says. Was Ms. Wolfs set vicious? Absolutely, he writes. But was it gratuitous? Not at all. Fellow comedians also came to her defense. In memoriam. Abbas Attar, 74, an Iranian-born photographer who documented cataclysmic events throughout the world, including the Iranian Revolution and the Troubles in Northern Ireland. By any other name: Researchers are completing a full genome map of the rose.Back StoryThe newspaper Pravda officially began publishing in Russia this week in 1912, as Vladimir Lenins megaphone for communist thought. (Pravda, which means truth, was probably historys most inaccurately named publication, The Times once noted.)One of Pravdas early editors was Joseph Stalin, and, along with Izvestia, which means news, the two papers became the main tools for propaganda in the Soviet Union. They also became an ironic refrain in Soviet life: There is no news in Pravda and no truth in Izvestia.With a circulation of 11 million at its peak  aided by mandatory subscriptions for government organizations  Pravda spoke with the absolute, leaden authority of the Kremlin, The Times wrote.After the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991, Pravda lost its captive audience. The next year, it lamented in a note to readers the market forces that led to a brief shutdown:Under the Czar the newspaper was closed nine times, then four under the Provisional Government, and then in August 1991. The time has come to put us on our knees once again. Some politicians think that 80 years of Pravda can be struck out of history.The paper was later bought by two Greek capitalists, but it still struggled, briefly shutting down again in 1996. (Today, its circulation is about 100,000.)Robb Todd wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
