David Byars documents an armed standoff in No Mans Land. And Francis Lees debut feature streams on Netflix.Whats on TVNO MANS LAND (2017) 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). When a group of armed protesters took over eastern Oregons Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in early 2016, they began a weekslong standoff with the federal government that left one rancher dead, and brought heightened nationwide attention to rural landowners concerns about property rights. David Byarss documentary provides an intimate view of the clash through footage taken during the occupation, much of it from within the protesters ranks. Mr. Byars mostly avoids commentary, leaving moral conclusions to viewers.CHILDREN OF MEN (2006) 7 p.m. on Showtime (and on Showtime streaming platforms). Alfonso Cuarns sci-fi tale, well received but commercially stagnant  the year of its release, has seen its strong reputation grow stronger in the second half of this decade. Children of Men is having a remarkable resurgence  not just because of its 10th anniversary but because of its unsettling relevance at the conclusion of this annus horribilis, Abraham Riesman wrote in New York magazine in December 2016. Thats one of several recent pieces of criticism pointing to the prescience of Mr. Cuarns film, set in a world where infertility has led to widespread terrorist attacks, a refugee crisis and a Britain closed to immigrants. Clive Owen stars as a man helping a miraculously pregnant refugee (Clare-Hope Ashitey) navigate the decimated world. This year, J. Hoberman wrote in The New York Times that few popular movies are so predicated on sudden death and irrevocable loss, while still offering the promise  or illusion  of hope.A DANGEROUS SON (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO. Liz Garbus (The Fourth Estate) directs this documentary on mental health. It centers on three families with children who have mental illness, following them as they seek treatment  and find that getting appropriate care is harder than they imagined.SMITHSONIAN TIME CAPSULE: 1968 8 p.m. on Smithsonian. In late December 1968, Apollo 8 left Earths atmosphere on its way to orbit the moon. In the nation it left behind, a tumultuous year was ending: The Tet offensive, the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Robert F. Kennedy and a presidential election were parts of a larger equation that added up to a nation on edge. Like a televised museum exhibition, this special tells the history of 1968 by highlighting objects from significant events of that year.Whats StreamingGODS OWN COUNTRY (2017) on Netflix. The feature debut from the writer and director Francis Lee follows a young man (Josh OConnor) struggling to maintain his family farm in Yorkshire, England, while at the same time developing a romantic relationship with a Romanian migrant worker (Alec Secareanu). Jeannette Catsoulis, in her review for The Times, wrote that the film weaves a rough magic from Joshua James Richardss biting cinematography and the storys slow, unsteady arc from bitter to hopeful.
