MEXICO CITY  The message that circulated on social media earlier this year  most Mexicans would have to re-register within days if they wanted to vote in the presidential election  set off a low-level panic on Facebook, Twitter and other platforms.The thing is, it wasnt true.The source remains unclear. But whether the message was a dirty tricksters attempt to undermine the system or just an ill-informed public service effort, the anger and uncertainty it generated represented an early skirmish in the battle over disinformation in this years fiercely contested election season.What candidates do on social media will be decisive, said Carlos Merlo, managing partner of Victory Lab, a marketing firm dedicated to spreading viral claims, saying they must respond quicker than ever to combat disinformation.There is a lot at stake in the July 1 vote: over 3,400 elected positions at the local, state and federal levels, more than in any other election in Mexican history. The biggest prize is the presidency, with five candidates on the ballot competing to succeed President Enrique Pea Nieto for a six-year term.Fake news has been flowing fast, and the campaigns have traded accusations that they have hired paid, online agitators called trolls and used automated programs known as bots to flood social media platforms with messages intended to deceive and manipulate voters.And as investigators in the United States continue to investigate the extent of Russian efforts to sway the 2016 presidential election, the threat of Russian interference has loomed over the Mexican race as well.In a speech in December, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, then the United States national security adviser, said there were initial signs that the Russian government was trying to influence the Mexican election, though he provided no details.Mexican officials say they have not found evidence of Russian meddling or received any from their American counterparts, and the Russian authorities have denied engaging in such activity.Enrique Andrade, a top official at Mexicos National Electoral Institute, said the agency was on guard against any foreign interference. We do think it is a possibility, and we are preparing ourselves so that it will not affect the process, he said.Some analysts have speculated that Russia might still try to disrupt the region by intensifying political polarization in Mexico ahead of the vote. And, they say, the Russians may view Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, the front-runner in the polls who has cut a more antagonistic figure toward the United States than his rivals, as a useful vehicle for that goal.Manuel Cosso Ramos, a digital strategist, claims to have found Russian fingerprints on social media traffic concerning the election, much of it about Mr. Lpez Obrador. Mr. Cosso is not affiliated with a presidential campaign, but acknowledges being no fan of Mr. Lpez Obrador.Using an analytics tool called NetBase, Mr. Cosso said he found that 4.8 million items about Mr. Lpez Obrador had been posted to social media and news websites in the past month by users outside Mexico. About 63 percent were associated with users in Russia, he said, and 20 percent with Ukraine.Similar searches for two other leading candidates, Ricardo Anaya and Jos Antonio Meade, found that most of the foreign activity was coming from the United States, with only 4 percent emanating from Russia, Mr. Cosso said.But other digital consultants, running different programs, said they had found no such evidence of election-related social media activity from Russia, and Mr. Cossos findings could not be independently verified.Officials with Mr. Lpez Obradors campaign have dismissed Mr. Cossos findings as biased because of his political inclinations.Mr. Lpez Obrador, meanwhile, has answered the charges of Russian links with satire, posting a video on Twitter showing him waiting at a port in Veracruz for a Russian submarine to bring him gold from Moscow. He called himself Andrs Manuelovich.The many pieces of fake news that have circulated in Mexico of late include a claim that Pope Francis weighed in on the presidential race and criticized Mr. Lpez Obradors political ideology. (He didnt, according to Verificado 2018, a fact-checking group established in March to verify election-related news.)Another recent claim  also exposed as false by Verificado  held that Mr. Anaya was related to members of the Pea Nieto administration and, thus, his opposition party was in league with it.Some analysts said a law that passed in 2007, which sought to clean up Mexican campaigns by regulating ad purchases, among other things, had the effect of pushing rough-and-tumble politicking onto the internet. In the 2012 presidential election, the online battle was bruising.A Mexican web developer, Ivn Santiesteban, concluded that around 20,000 bots were used in the month and a half before Election Day 2012 to create online conversations favorable to Mr. Pea Nieto.About 1,000 people worked with the Pea Nieto campaign that year to combat negative comments in social media and instead position the positive ones, the chief of marketing for the campaign, Aurelio Nuo, has said.Since then, the online audience has nearly doubled: about 71.3 million internet users in Mexico, according to the latest census data, up from 40.9 million in 2012. At the same time, the campaigns have become more adept at designing online strategies.From this point on, the battle will be fought on the social networks, said Javier Murillo, co-founder and chairman of Metrics, a digital technology consultancy in Mexico.Using proprietary algorithms, Mr. Murillo said he found that bots and trolls generated up to 27 percent of election postings on Facebook and Twitter in Mexico during a recent monthlong period.Digital consultants working with the campaigns of the three leading presidential candidates  Mr. Lopez Obrador, Mr. Anaya and Mr. Meade  denied that the campaigns were using such methods, or spreading fake news.Social media is now an obligatory part of any campaign war room, said Mr. Anayas digital strategist, Juan Pablo Adame Alemn. But we see no benefit to inflating topics with bots or trolls.In an effort to get ahead of the problem as Election Day draws closer, Mexican authorities have reached agreements with Facebook, Twitter and Google on ways to counteract fake news and spread accurate information. Facebook, as part of its agreement, placed ads in Mexican newspapers this spring providing guidance on how to detect fake news.Election officials have been particularly worried about rumors that seem intended to undermine the integrity of the system. The message concerning voter registration this year was of the biggest concern to them so far, said Mr. Andrade of the National Electoral Institute.Then again, he cautioned, we are only getting started in terms of the campaign process.
