 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:Giuliani, take two Rudolph Giuliani, who recently joined President Trumps legal team,  tried again on Sunday to straighten out what the president knew, and when, about a payment to the pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels.Speaking to ABC days after an interview in which, according to Mr. Trump, he did not have his facts straight, Mr. Giuliani said on Sunday that it was possible that Mr. Trump had paid hush money to other women.He also said that the president might invoke the Fifth Amendment rather than testify in the special counsels investigation. Mr. Trump said as recently as Friday that he wanted to be interviewed by Robert Muellers team. Mr. Giuliani, a former federal prosecutor, has long been a champion of law enforcement efforts,  but that stance has changed. Theres no question that the amount of government misconduct is accumulating, Mr. Giuliani said of the Mueller inquiry. Very embarrassing to my former Justice Department.Dueling warnings on Iran deal President Trump has said he will decide by Saturday whether to withdraw from the Obama-era nuclear agreement, and Iran and Israel are both trying to influence his thinking.President Hassan Rouhani of Iran warned on Sunday of historic regret if the U.S. were to rip up the deal, which Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel called fatally flawed. Mr. Trump has argued that the accord has been undercut by Irans false claims about the status of its nuclear program. Questions about the verification and inspection process could be even more complicated in North Korea, with which Mr. Trump is soon expected to discuss disarmament.Bungling kept Puerto Rico powerless After two hurricanes last summer, the island all but slipped from the modern era.Now, after a $2.5 billion reconstruction effort, 98 percent of the population has electricity. But the power grid is still nightmarishly unreliable. An examination of the project shows how decisions by federal and local officials sent the effort on a course that would take months to correct.Whats left after a pro-ISIS invasion Nearly a year ago, a homegrown extremist group loyal to the Islamic State seized the city of Marawi, in the southern Philippines.Hundreds of thousands of people were displaced by five months of fighting, the longest urban combat in the country since World War II. The Philippine Army, with help from the U.S., retook control in October, and residents are now beginning to return to collect their belongings. Our correspondent traveled with one family, who found skeletal remains, bomb remnants and an empty vault. Heres his video report.Business Academics from around the world have harvested information from Facebook for more than a decade. The security of the data theyve collected is now being questioned. President Trump says he essentially got rid of Obamacare. But the I.R.S. is  sending penalty notices to businesses that failed to comply with the Affordable Care Acts employer mandate. Are you getting a lot of email about privacy policy updates? Heres what Europes tough new data law means for you. The start of what participants hope is the final leg in negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement is among the headlines to watch this week. U.S. stocks were up on Friday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Feeling burned out? Here are three things that can help. Five cheap(ish) things you need for travel. Recipe of the day:  One-pot spaghetti with cherry tomatoes and kale is ready in 20 minutes.Over the Weekend The eruption of the Kilauea volcano in Hawaii released high levels of sulfur dioxide gas, the authorities warned. NASAs InSight spacecraft launched on a six-month voyage to Mars to study the planets deep interior. The National Rifle Association drew about 75,000 attendees to Dallas for its 147th annual meeting. We spoke with some of them. At a rain-soaked Kentucky Derby, Justify became the first 3-year-old horse since 1882 to win without having raced at the age of 2. In the N.H.L., the Vegas Golden Knights reached the Western Conference finals in their inaugural season. Here are the latest scores from the N.H.L. and N.B.A. playoffs. Avengers: Infinity War  crossed the $1 billion mark globally in its second week of release, the fastest ever to do so.Noteworthy Secretary leaves $8 million for studentsSylvia Bloom, from Brooklyn, worked for the same law firm for 67 years until retiring at age 96. She died not long afterward in 2016.She left behind a fortune, the bulk of which was donated to help fund scholarships for disadvantaged children. This is how you get to BroadwayPerformers in Hamilton, Frozen and many other shows rehearse under the same roof in Times Square.Our video takes you inside. Analyzing DNA test videosAs the results from services like 23andMe are shared publicly, they become a tool for talking about race, often in ways that obscure its realities. Quotation of the dayThis isnt Trust, but verify. Its Distrust everything and verify, verify, verify.  Ernest Moniz, a secretary of energy in the Obama administration who helped negotiate the Iran nuclear deal in 2015, describing the difficulty of enforcing a similar accord with North Korea. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. What were readingMichael Roston, a senior staff editor on the Science Desk, recommends this article from The Cut: Beca Grimm presents an ethnography of this strange moment in time. Some people persistently gawk at others on Instagram after apparently deciding they didnt want to have much to do with them in real life.Back StoryThe happy couple, one a British royal and the other a commoner. A much-anticipated May wedding.But this is not Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. It was Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, and Antony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer, who were married on May 6, 1960.ImagePrincess Margaret and Antony Armstrong-Jones at Buckingham Palace on their wedding day, May 6, 1960.CreditCentral Press, via Agence France-PresseThen, as now, there was heightened interest across the Atlantic, and The Times had a front-page photograph and article.Our coverage included descriptions of the crowds who waited to see the couple on the balcony of Buckingham Palace, tales of royal weddings that did not go smoothly and a look at the myriad gifts from near and far.More than a dozen short items covered the details of the day, including tiara trouble and a bomb scare.We also had drawings of the guests and the clothes, including a going-away hat shaped like a souffl.And finally, a television piece marveled at the BBCs coverage and noted, Thanks to videotape and jet airplanes, pictures of live quality were shown on North American screens only six to seven hours after the event had occurred in London.Ultimately, the story ended sadly. The couple split 16 years later.Sarah Anderson wrote Todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
