 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:What Mueller wants to ask Trump The Times has obtained a list of at least four dozen questions that Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating Russias election interference, has for President Trump.Heres our analysis, as well as an annotated list of the questions.Offering the most detailed look yet at Mr. Muellers investigation, the questions appear intended to shed light on any ties to Russia that Mr. Trump might have, and to determine if he obstructed the inquiry. The questions were read by the special counsels investigators to Mr. Trumps lawyers, who compiled the list. That document was provided to The Times by a person outside the presidents legal team, a disclosure  Mr. Trump said today  was disgraceful.U.S. delays tariffs for allies The Trump administration will give the European Union, Canada and Mexico another 30-day exemption from steel and aluminum tariffs, which would have gone into effect today.The decision is expected to help ties with those allies, at least temporarily, as the U.S. prepares for tricky negotiations with North Korea and considers abandoning the Iran nuclear deal.For its part, China says it will refuse to discuss President Trumps two toughest trade demands when American officials arrive in Beijing this week. As the trade dispute escalates, Washington is considering prohibiting Chinese citizens from performing sensitive research in the U.S. It fears that students and researchers could help Beijings plan to dominate cutting-edge technologies.Netanyahu makes his case Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel accused Iran on Monday of lying for years about its efforts to build a nuclear weapon.His highly theatrical presentation came shortly before President Trumps self-imposed deadline of May 12 to decide whether to pull out of the Iran nuclear agreement. Mr. Netanyahu has opposed the deal from the outset. Mr. Netanyahu didnt provide any evidence that Iran had violated the agreement, which took effect in 2016, but the disclosures could add to Mr. Trumps resolve to abandon the deal.A monthlong odyssey The U.S. allowed eight members of a caravan of migrants camped out at the border with Mexico to begin the asylum process on Monday.The group, which started out in March to flee violence in Central America, numbered more than 1,200 at one point but dwindled to around 300. President Trump has said the caravan is a threat to national security and shows the weakness of U.S. immigration laws.A photographer of victims becomes one Shah Marai, the chief photographer in Kabul for Agence France-Presse, was among 25 people killed in a double bombing in the Afghan capital on Monday.It was the latest violence in a conflict that began more than 15 years ago and that shows no sign of ebbing. Mr. Marai started working as a driver for Agence France-Presse during the Taliban regime in the 1990s, when photography was largely banned. View a selection of his work here.Business The tax overhaul last year was sold as rocket fuel for American investment and growth, but so far theres no sign of acceleration. Facebooks latest privacy changes have become a financial nightmare for companies and programmers whose work relied on access to its  user data.Separately, a co-founder of the messaging service WhatsApp, which Facebook bought in 2014, is leaving the companys board of directors. Jan Koum had grown increasingly concerned about Facebooks position on user data, a company executive said. Sprint and T-Mobile argue that their proposed merger would benefit wireless customers, but analysts  including our columnist  are skeptical about the deals chances. The Times announced that its metro editor, Wendell Jamieson, had resigned after an internal investigation but did not specify the reason for his departure. U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Regardless of your income, you can benefit from a financial planner. Make yourself aware of subtle signs of heart disease. Recipe of the day: The best chicken salad is all about texture.Noteworthy The newest mission to MarsNASAs InSight spacecraft, scheduled to launch on Saturday, isnt interested in the surface of the red planet. Instead, it hopes to discover the planets deep interior.With a smartphone, you can explore the history of the many missions to Mars in augmented reality. In memoriamJudith Leiber, 97, designed handbags that were prized as objets dart. Gerson Leiber, 96, was a modernist artist. They were married 72 years and died hours apart. Making the list for a TonyTwo musicals with enormous brand names, Mean Girls and SpongeBob SquarePants, led the pack of Tony-nominated shows this morning. Follow our live briefing, and see the full list of nominees here. Doing what comedians doThe problem with Michelle Wolfs performance at the White House Correspondents Association dinner on Saturday wasnt her jokes. It was the event itself, our chief TV critic says.Was Ms. Wolfs set vicious? Absolutely, he writes. But was it gratuitous? Not at all. Best of late-night TVMichelle Wolf used to work for both Trevor Noah and Seth Meyers. The two comedians came to her defense on Monday. Quotation of the dayWe want to show people that we are not North Korea. When our guests walk on the streets they see a church, a mosque and a synagogue all in the same block. This is not the country you think it is. Reza Kianian, a prominent Iranian actor who is an ambassador for the Fajr International Film Festival in Tehran. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. What were readingPrashant Rao, our deputy Europe business editor, recommends this piece from Sixth Tone: Sometimes the best way to look at an issue is not with words, but with images. This four-part series has been analyzing Chinas history through archive photographs and the latest edition looks at pictures that were never published. Why did they not make the cut? What do they tell us about Chinas modern history?Back StoryIt doesnt often happen that what you achieve at the age of 11 makes a lasting impact.But on this day in 1930, Pluto was suggested as the name of what was then the newly discovered ninth planet, inspired by a British schoolgirl, Venetia Burney.ImageA conversation over breakfast led to the naming of Pluto.CreditNASAShortly after Planet X was discovered in February of that year, Venetias grandfather was reading about the news over breakfast. Interested in Greek and Roman mythology, Venetia suggested Pluto, the god of the underworld.Her grandfather, a retired librarian at Oxford, sent her suggestion to a professor of astronomy at the university, who wrote back: I think PLUTO excellent!!The name worked on a few levels: For the most distant planet, the name of an underworld god was fitting. And the first two letters match the initials of Percival Lowell, the astronomer who had initiated the search for the planet.As a reward, her grandfather gave her a five-pound note, and in 1987, an asteroid was named 6235 Burney in her honor.But she was modest about her achievement during an interview with NASA in 2006 (the same year that Pluto was demoted to a dwarf planet): It doesnt arise in conversation and you dont just go around telling people that you named Pluto.Anna Schaverien wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
