To the Editor:Re Kim Says Hed End Nuclear Pursuit for a U.S. Truce (front page, April 30) and Koreans Think Trump Has Earned Nobel Peace Prize (news article, May 1):Im suspicious. Very suspicious. All of a sudden, as if by magic, Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, is raising a white flag, proposing (vaguely) to give up the nuclear weapons that are his only bargaining chip against the United States. Calls are already circulating for President Trump to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for bringing Mr. Kim to his knees. A Nobel Prize? For Donald Trump? Really?!Does it occur to anyone that this appears to be a simple ploy by China and North Korea to get Mr. Trump to scale back Americas presence on the Korean Peninsula?Would Mr. Trump refuse such a ploy, even if it harms Americas long-term interests, when a quick, high-profile peace deal, broadcast around the world, offers Mr. Trump a potential public relations lifeline to counter the impending conclusions of the Mueller investigation?BRAD RAFFLE, EUGENE, ORE.To the Editor:President Trump repeatedly threatened to unleash fire and fury on North Korea and ordered his secretary of state to stop wasting his time on diplomacy. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, extended the olive branch by offering to enter peace talks and diplomatically de-escalated tensions. Only in this new world order of post-truth and alternative facts would it make sense for Mr. Trump to be nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.ERIC MULLEN, NEW YORKTo the Editor:As President Trump and others take a victory lap for progress on a resolution to the crisis in Korea, it behooves us to consider the generalizability of the administrations approach.While threats and bluster may have contributed to the current movement toward an agreement, will brinkmanship work elsewhere? On trade? On Iran? This is a risky lesson to draw from this (partial) success.MICHAEL G. HUELSHOFFNEW ORLEANSThe writer is chairman of the political science department at the University of New Orleans.To the Editor:Congratulations to President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Kim Jong-un of North Korea for setting a framework for formally ending a 68-year war and bringing an end to North Koreas nuclear program.Although numerous other countries and individuals have contributed to these spectacular events, we cannot forget Dennis Rodman, the former N.B.A. star who has made several trips to North Korea and has met with Mr. Kim.Perhaps Mr. Rodman and Mr. Trump could share the Nobel Prize.MICHAEL H. LANEFREDERICKSBURG, VA.
