President Trump, his aides and Republicans in Congress tried their best last year to mislead the public about legislation that would cripple the Affordable Care Act and cut taxes for corporations while doing little to help workers. Now, a few of these Republicans have come clean  at least momentarily.Marco Rubio, the senator from Florida and former presidential candidate, told The Economist recently that the big corporate tax cut he voted for late last year was passed under the false pretense that businesses would use their tax windfall on their employees. As Mr. Rubio accurately said in the interview, Theres no evidence whatsoever that the moneys been massively poured back into the American worker. Mr. Rubio later walked back his assessment of the tax bill, writing in National Review that he thinks it has been good for Americans.But it was refreshing to see him clearly acknowledge, even once, what many economists and voters have long known. Sure enough, what we have seen so far is that companies are buying back stock  which benefits a small group of well-heeled investors  while giving their workers modest bonuses at best.Then theres Tom Price, Mr. Trumps first health and human services secretary, who was ousted from the administration for blowing tax dollars on private plane trips. Last year he said, contrary to available evidence, that the provision in the health care act that requires people to be insured was driving up the cost of health insurance.On Tuesday, Mr. Price did a 180 in a speech at a health care conference in Washington, noting correctly that, in fact, it was Congresss decision to eliminate the health insurance mandate that drives up the cost of insurance.This is hardly a bold statement  most experts agree  but it was newsworthy coming from Mr. Price, who was a key supporter of Mr. Trumps efforts to repeal the health care act. What was less surprising was that Mr. Price reverted to the party line a day later, saying that getting rid of the mandate was exactly the right thing to do.Of course, the on-the-level statements from Mr. Rubio and Mr. Price represent stray comments in an ocean of lies, fibs and falsehoods about these pieces of legislation. The vast majority of Republican leaders insist that down is up and up is down when it comes to the effects of their policies, especially in the area of health care.While Congress failed to fully repeal the A.C.A. last year, the Trump administration has been busily whittling away health care benefits, disingenuously arguing that these changes will help working-class families by lowering health care costs. Under one administration proposal thats in the final stages of approval, insurance companies will be able to sell yearlong junk health plans that dont have to cover unexpected medical costs or pre-existing conditions. Earlier, the administration slashed spending on advertising and outreach to encourage people to sign up for policies on the health insurance marketplaces created by the health care act. And it ended payments to insurance companies that were authorized by the law to help lower deductibles for low-income families.The administrations health care sabotage efforts have already had a big impact, but not the kind of impact officials promised. Insurance companies raised average premiums for 2018 A.C.A. policies by 30 percent. This has mostly hurt middle-class families who have to pay full freight for health insurance because they make too much money to qualify for subsidies and dont get coverage through their employers. Few experts were surprised when the Commonwealth Fund found that the percentage of American adults who did not have health insurance jumped to 15.5 percent this year, from 12.7 percent before Mr. Trump took office. Experts say those numbers could climb higher still when the penalty for not having insurance goes away next year.Yet conservatives are pushing for even more far-reaching changes. A group led by a former Republican senator, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, is working, with the backing of the White House, on a last-ditch effort to repeal the health care act before the November midterm elections. Hopefully, this effort will not succeed  the already slim Republican majority in the Senate has narrowed after the December special election in Alabama.These continued efforts to erode the well-being of the middle class should remind all Americans, in this election year, to beware the promises of politicians who have a long record of lying to the public. With their recent comments, Mr. Rubio and Mr. Price unwittingly highlighted the yawning gap between what Republicans say they want to achieve and what their proposals actually do.
