NEW YORK  The Latest on the Trump administration ending special immigration status for Hondurans (all times local):4:50 p.m.The Honduran government is expressing regret over a U.S. move to end temporary protected status for tens of thousands of the Central American nation\'s citizens residing in the United States.The foreign relations ministry says in a statement that it is a matter for Washington to decide, but adds that "we deeply lament it."It says returnees will be welcomed "with open arms" and promises to help facilitate their reintegration into Honduran society.The Trump administration announced Friday that it is ending special immigration protections granted for about 57,000 Hondurans.The decision adds to hundreds of thousands of other immigrants from countries battered by violence and natural disasters who are losing permission to be in the United States.Hondurans covered by TPS have until Jan. 5, 2020, to return home.___3:40 p.m.The Trump administration is ending special immigration status for nearly 60,000 Hondurans who have lived in the United States since a devastating hurricane two decades ago.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security\'s decision Friday gives Hondurans with temporary protected status a year and a half to leave the U.S. or obtain legal residency in other ways. The designation ends Jan. 5, 2020.Around 437,000 immigrants from 10 countries affected by extreme violence or disasters have temporary protected status. The Homeland Security Department under Trump has now discontinued that status for nearly all of those groups, including people from Sudan, Nicaragua, Nepal, Haiti, and El Salvador.The president\'s supporters say the protections were never meant to be permanent. Immigrant advocates say revoking them will drive the people affected underground.___2:40 p.m.The Trump administration is expected to end special immigration status granted to nearly 60,000 Hondurans after a devastating hurricane two decades ago.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security faces a Friday deadline to renew the Hondurans\' temporary protected status. Ending it would give them until next year to leave the U.S. or obtain legal residency other ways.Around 437,000 immigrants from countries affected by extreme violence or disasters had enjoyed temporary protected status. The Homeland Security Department under Trump has discontinued that status for nearly all of those groups, including people from Sudan, Nicaragua, Nepal, Haiti, and El Salvador.The president\'s supporters note the protections were never meant to be permanent. Immigrant advocates argue that revoking them will simply drive the majority of the people affected underground.
