(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Protests in France and Russia, a European corruption scandal and a daring escape in Iceland. Heres the latest: Anger toward powerful leaders erupted into huge street protests in France and Russia this weekend. But if the protest symbols were similar, the starkly different official reactions underlined just how far apart the two countries are in terms of democratic liberties.In Paris, thousands danced, picnicked and railed against President Emmanuel Macrons push to cut worker protections and increase police powers. Demonstrators, above, depicted Mr. Macron as a king ruling over a soft dictatorship. But the atmosphere was largely festive, in contrast with violent May Day protests in France last week.In Russia, Vladimir Putins fourth inauguration as president today has been prefigured by peaceful protests across the nation  and the arrests of more than 2,000 people. Clearly, not all Russians are acquiescing to his rollback of the freedoms won after the breakup of the Soviet Union._____ Bribes, jewelry and prostitutes.Those are just some of the illicit offerings members of the Council of Europes parliamentary assembly are accused of accepting in return for silencing discussion of human rights violations in Azerbaijan.Now, European governments are demanding punishment for the lawmakers, including a senator in Spains conservative governing party, Pedro Agramunt, above right.The corruption scandal is threatening to become one of the biggest credibility tests of the council, founded decades ago to help protect human rights and the rule of law in Europe._____ Knives, knives, knives, knives.That was President Trump, taking a jab at Londons crime rate as he defended gun ownership in the United States at a National Rifle Association conference, above, where he called a London hospital a war zone for horrible stabbing wounds.Britons reacted to Mr. Trumps suggestion that guns could solve Britains rise in knife violence with ridicule and disgust. His speech dashed any hope that he would adopt a more conciliatory tone toward the country before his visit in July.Meanwhile, for our royal watchers out there, Kensington Palace released the first official photographs of the fifth in line to the throne, Prince Louis. Meghan Markle, whose parents are divorced, successfully lobbied for her mother to be part of her wedding to Prince Harry on May 19, a departure from tradition._____ A crisis in plain sight.Researchers say that more than a billion people around the world need eyeglasses but dont have them. (Some estimates put the figure closer to 2.5 billion.)Our reporter went to India, where experts say a significant number of Indias roughly 200,000 annual traffic deaths are tied to poor vision, to see how doctors, nonprofits and companies are trying to catapult the issue onto the global development agenda. Above, a mobile eye examination camp in Tamil Nadu, India._____Business In Iceland, a man held for questioning in a $2 million theft of Bitcoin-mining computers easily escaped a low-security prison, above. Now, after an international manhunt, hes glad to be back. Icelandic prisons are a hotel, he said. The E.U. is introducing some of the strictest online privacy rules in the world. Heres what they mean for you. The worlds most powerful regulator: Margrethe Vestager, Europes competition commissioner, is a Dane who has ordered American tech companies to pay billions of dollars in fines and back taxes (and she may become president of the European Commission). The Bank of Englands decision on interest rates, developers conferences at Google and Microsoft and a (possibly final) push on Nafta talks are among the headlines to watch for this week. Orwellian nonsense is how the U.S. described the Chinese governments order for 36 airline companies to purge their websites of references to Macau, Taiwan and Hong Kong as separate countries. But China pushed back, saying thats the price of doing business there.  Rupert Murdoch and Walmarts Walton family collectively lost hundreds of millions of dollars investing in Theranos, the Silicon Valley blood-testing company accused of sweeping fraud.  Heres a snapshot of global markets.In the News The Swedish Academy  announced that for the first time in 69 years it would postpone awarding the Nobel Prize in Literature, an extraordinary reckoning for the cultural institution as it faces a major sexual misconduct scandal. Instead, two will be awarded in 2019. Above, Jean-Claude Arnault, the man who has been accused, and his wife, Katarina Frostenson, a member of the academy. [The New York Times] Turkeys leading independent newspaper went back to work after 14 of its staff members were convicted of aiding terrorism. But employees worry about its future amid a crackdown by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [The New York Times] In Germany, nearly 36,000 people joined an online protest against a pivotal secondary-school English exam for using outdated language that led many to panic about their futures. [The New York Times] A chemical weapons watchdog corrected estimates on the amount of nerve agent used in an attack on a former Russian spy in Britain. [The New York Times] The European Commission has allotted 12 million euros to provide young citizens of the E.U. with free InterRail passes to travel through the Continent this summer. [The New York Times] In Britain, Prime Minister Theresa Mays Conservative Party emerged relatively unscathed from local elections, despite troubles over Brexit and a recent cabinet resignation. [The New York Times] Rudolph Giuliani, President Trumps new lawyer, said Mr. Trump could invoke the Fifth Amendment to avoid testifying in the special counsels Russia investigation. [The New York Times]Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Classic chicken Marsala ready in 30 minutes. Feeling burned out? Here are three things that can help. 5 cheap(ish) things you need for travel.Noteworthy The rug route: A writer took a road trip through Romania in search of kilims, the countrys traditional textile, and the people who still weave them. In memoriam: Wanda Wilkomirska, 89, an acclaimed Polish violinist who was one of the countrys most popular cultural exports in the Soviet era. Q. & A. We spoke with Sofija Stefanovic, the author of Miss Ex-Yugoslavia, the story of her early childhood in a country that no longer exists and her later years in Australia, where her family moved to get away from political tensions.Back StoryThe happy couple, one a British royal and the other a commoner. A much-anticipated May wedding.But this is not Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. It was Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, and Antony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer, who were married on May 6, 1960.Then as now, there was heightened interest across the Atlantic, and The Times had a front-page photo and story.Heres how we covered the day:We wrote about the crowds who waited to see the couple on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.There were tales of royal weddings that did not go smoothly and gifts from afar.More than a dozen short items covered the details of the day, including tiara trouble and a bomb scare.We had drawings of the guests and the clothes, including a going-away hat shaped like a souffl.And, finally, a television piece marveled at the BBCs coverage and noted, Thanks to videotape and jet airplanes, pictures of live quality were shown on North American screens only six to seven hours after the event had occurred in London.The couple split after 16 years.Sarah Anderson wrote Todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
