PORT WENTWORTH, Ga.  In a story May 2 about the crash of a military cargo plane, The Associated Press erroneously reported the age of the plane based on information from Puerto Rico\'s National Guard. The plane was about 40 years old, not more than 60 years old.A corrected version of the story is below:9 Puerto Ricans killed in final flight of C-130Authorities say crew of 9 was killed flying a Puerto Rican National Guard C-130 into retirement after about 40 years of serviceBy RUSS BYNUM and DANICA COTOAssociated PressPORT WENTWORTH, Ga. (AP)  A crew of nine Puerto Ricans were flying an Air National Guard C-130 into retirement in Arizona when it crashed onto a highway in Georgia on Wednesday, and authorities said there are no survivors.The plane crashed onto state highway 21 moments after taking off from the Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport, narrowly missing people on the ground and sending an orange and black fireball into the sky."It miraculously did not hit any cars, any homes," Effingham County Sheriff\'s spokeswoman Gena Bilbo said. "This is a very busy roadway."Eight hours after the crash, she added: "To our knowledge there are no survivors."The huge plane\'s fuselage appeared to have struck the median, and pieces of its wings, which spanned 132 feet (40 meters), were scattered across lanes in both directions. The debris field stretched 600 feet (183 meters) in diameter, Bilbo said. The only part still intact was the tail section, said Chris Hanks, a spokesman for the Savannah Professional Firefighters Association.The plane was about 40 years old, said Puerto Rico National Guard spokesman Maj. Paul Dahlen.Belonging to the 156th Air Wing, the plane was used to rescue U.S. citizens stranded in the British Virgin Islands following Hurricane Irma and ferry supplies to the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria last year."The planes that we have in Puerto Rico  it\'s not news today that they are the oldest planes on inventory" of all National Guard planes nationwide, said Isabelo Rivera, adjutant general of Puerto Rico\'s National Guard. He said that Puerto Rico\'s National Guard has five other similar planes, two of which need maintenance and aren\'t being used.It\'s too early to say what might have caused the accident, he said. The plane last received maintenance at the base in Savannah in April.All nine crew members had helped with hurricane recovery efforts as part of the 198th Fighter Squadron, nicknamed the Bucaneros, which flies out of Base Muniz in the northern coastal city of Carolina, Rivera said."This pains us," Rivera said of the deaths. They aren\'t releasing names until all the families have been contacted, but "most of them already know and have come to the base."Motorist Mark Jones told the Savannah Morning News that he saw the plane hit the road right in front of him, about a mile (less than two kilometers) from the airport."It didn\'t look like it nosedived, but it almost looked like it stalled and just went almost flat right there in the middle of the highway," Jones said, describing how people stopped and got out of their cars following the explosion."I\'m still shook up and shaking. My stomach is in knots because I know they\'re people just like me. I wasn\'t that far from it and I could have just kept going and it would have been me and we wouldn\'t be talking right now," Jones said.The U.S. territory\'s Gov. Ricardo Rossello expressed his sadness, tweeting that "our prayers are with the families of the Puerto Rican crew."President Donald Trump tweeted that he had been briefed on the crash, and sent "thoughts and prayers for the victims, their families and the great men and women of the National Guard."___Coto reported from San Juan, Puerto Rico. Associated Press writer Jeff Martin in Atlanta contributed to this report.
