Get in, loser. Were about to relive the hellish days of high school through the eyes of our favorite queen bees and wannabes.Mean Girls  the 2004 film that starred Lindsay Lohan as Cady, a new student who tries to navigate the cliques of North Shore High  has become one of the most quotable films, generating endless GIFs and memes. Now that its on Broadway, you can sing some of the lines, too. The show was nominated for 12 Tony Awards, including best musical.Heres your guide to North Shore in 2018. Tina Feys adaptation for the musical (with music by Jeff Richmond and lyrics by Nell Benjamin) deviates from the movie, but everything is still fetch.Warning: Spoilers ahead.Then: Cady as narratorIn 2004, Ms. Lohan, then a cog in the Disney machine, was an it girl in Hollywood. Fans liked her because she seemed  to use a line from Ms. Feys book  authentic but not in a fake way.Now: Janis and Damian as narratorsBeing an outsider is in. Janis and Damian take on the part of storytellers, and audiences seemed to like Cadys art freak friends in this role. Perhaps in 2018 we have less patience for a lead character who fails math to impress a boy.Then: Regina calls Janis a lesbian Why are you so obsessed with me? Regina, the queen bee of North Shore, asked of Janis in middle school, before spreading the rumor that her former best friend was a lesbian. This is why Janis wanted Cady to help her destroy Reginas reputation.Now: Regina calls Janis a space dykeThe musical has plenty of girl-power messaging, but it still hinges on the premise that middle school gossip about sexual orientation would define the social dynamics in a progressive community (Mean Girls takes place in Evanston, Ill.). This might have been more plausible in 2004, when expressions of queer identities were less visible and socially acceptable.Yet Regina and others call Janis a space dyke.  \\_()_/Then: Toaster StrudelGretchen was described as being totally rich in the film because her father was the inventor of Toaster Strudel. Gretchen didnt pass up the chance to tell Mr. Duvall, North Shores principal, that her father was behind the frozen pastry.Now: Klteen barsCady still supplies Regina with the fictional Swedish nutrition bars to sabotage her weight-loss goal. (Whatever, present-day Regina is getting cheese fries.) Then: 1-3-5Regina reserved her spring fling dress at 1-3-5, an allusion to the mall retailer 5-7-9, but she couldnt zip it up. The saleswomans advice: You could try Sears.Now: AthleisureThe spring fling dress fits just fine. But Regina does wear sweats in the school cafeteria, prompting Gretchen to screech, You cant sit with us!Then: Glen CocoHe was the boy who got four candy cane grams and spurred a thousand memes. But those memes spelled his name wrong.Now: Glen CoccoThats right, Coccos name includes two Cs. It always has. But his name wasnt in the films credits, so meme-makers guessed the spelling. They guessed wrong.Then: The power of the three-way callingRegina tricked Cady into trash-talking Gretchen while Gretchen was on the line. Cady tricked Regina into trash-talking Gretchen and Karen on a group call. All four used landline telephones. Now: The power of social mediaWho uses a landline? LED screens show posts related to what the girls say and do. The limit does not exist! Then: Referencing ESPNKaren told Cady: Im kind of psychic. I have a fifth sense. Its like I have ESPN or something. In 2004, many eyes were glued to ESPN.Now: Referencing President TrumpIn an era of #fakenews, many eyes are glued to Twitter. Regina jokes that President Trump has blocked her on the site.Then: The Burn Book burns Coach CarrCoach Carr, step away from the underage girls! The same coach, who said, Dont have sex because you will get pregnant and die, was accused of having inappropriate relationships with two students.Now: The Burn Book burns Aaron SamuelsReferences to pedophilia are out in the age of #MeToo. The Burn Book does reveal that Cadys crush, Aaron, uses a fake address to attend North Shore, so hes expelled. He doesnt even go there anymore!The big questions, though, are why a Burn Book exists in 2018, and why Regina would photocopy its contents instead of posting pages on Instagram.Then: Santas Little Helpers doing Jingle Bell RockThe Plastics danced to the Christmas tune at the winter talent show. Gretchen accidentally kicked the portable CD player, causing the song to skip. Cady saved the day by leading a singalong.Now: The Hot Elves doing Rockin Around the PoleThe change was a creative decision. And now a boombox doesnt malfunction. (Do boomboxes, like, exist anymore?) Instead, Reginas skirt pops off, and she is shamed on social media.Then: Oct. 3 In the film, Aaron asked Cady what day it is. Its October Third, she said. Now: Oct. 3 In the musical, Aaron asks Cady what day it is. Its October Third, she says.
