WASHINGTON  The Latest on President Donald Trump urging West Virginia voters not to vote for Don Blankenship (all times local):2:30 p.m.West Virginia\'s attorney general has said he plans to notify a probation officer that GOP Senate candidate Don Blankenship violated the Ethics in Government Act by failing to file a form  but a federal prosecutor says the failure to file wouldn\'t have violated the terms of Blankenship\'s supervised release from prison.State Attorney General Patrick Morrisey has said fellow Republican Blankenship failed to file a personal financial disclosure form in violation of the Ethics in Government Act. Morrisey says he plans to forward the information to a probation officer in Nevada where Blankenship has a home.U.S. Attorney Mike Stuart in Charleston says his office has no information regarding Morrisey\'s claim but adds it "would not be a violation" of Blankenship\'s supervised release.Blankenship served a one-year prison term for conspiring to willfully violate mine safety standards at Massey Energy\'s Upper Big Branch Mine, where 29 miners were killed in a 2010 explosion.___9:10 a.m.A defiant Don Blankenship is firing back after President Donald Trump urged West Virginia voters to support two of the convicted ex-coal executive\'s opponents in the Republican U.S. Senate primary.Blankenship predicts he can not only win the primary but also defeat incumbent Democratic U.S. Joe Manchin in November "without the support of the establishment."Trump felt otherwise when he said in a tweet that Blankenship would lose the general election to Manchin. Trump urged voters to cast GOP primary ballots either for two-term Congressman Evan Jenkins or state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey.Blankenship is among six GOP candidates in Tuesday\'s primary.7:30 a.m.President Donald Trump is urging West Virginia voters to reject a former federal convict and coal baron running in the Republican Senate primary, arguing that Don Blankenship he would lose the general election.Trump tweets on Monday: "To the great people of West Virginia we have, together, a really great chance to keep making a big difference. Problem is, Don Blankenship, currently running for Senate, can\'t win the General Election in your State...No way! Remember Alabama. Vote Rep. Jenkins or A.G. Morrisey!"Blankenship has taken aim at Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell with racially charged accusations of corruption.The primary is Tuesday.Trump is citing Alabama Republican Roy Moore, who lost a special Senate election after allegations of past sexual misconduct. Trump endorsed Moore in that race.
