Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.One of the Healthiest Dictators Ever ElectedPresident Trumps former doctor Harold Bornstein recently said that Trump crafted the language in a glowing health report Bornstein signed off on in 2015. The letter read: If elected, Mr. Trump, I can state unequivocally, will be the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency.The late-night hosts were far from surprised to learn that Trump was behind the hyperbole.His doctor wrote a letter calling Trump the healthiest president ever, but now the doctor is saying Trump dictated the letter himself. Trump was like, Yes, I dictated it, and I am one of the healthiest dictators ever elected.  JIMMY FALLONStephen Colbert said he had copies of letters that Trump had dictated to his other doctors.I guess that explains these other doctors notes, like this one from Trumps dentist: Most teeth ever. Much longer tongue than Obama. And his podiatrists report: Feet of a god, unless theres a draft, in which case bone spurs. Sad!  STEPHEN COLBERTDelicious?President Emmanuel Macron of France slipped up during a joint news conference with Malcolm Turnbull, the Australian prime minister, calling Turnbulls wife delicious. Trevor Noah had some fun with that.Whoa, back off, Pep Le Pew, thats someones wife. You know, it would have been cool if the Australian prime minister thought it was some sort of custom and rolled with it  if he was like, [Australian accent] Thank you, President Macron, your wife is quite shaggable as well. Id totally snack on er.  TREVOR NOAHAs it turns out, it was an innocent mistake: The French word for delicious  dlicieux  can also be used to mean charming. But for a moment, Noah was concerned.I was worried that when Macron came to the U.S., instead of him rubbing off on Trump, it was Trump that was rubbing off on him. Like, they held hands and suddenly Macron was like [French accent], Madame and monsieur, we will make France great again. Who is going to pay for eet? Belgium!  TREVOR NOAHSamantha Bee Has Harsh Words for Mark ZuckerbergSamantha Bee is concerned about Facebooks privacy policies, and shes not satisfied by the apology the companys chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, offered before Congress last month. She pointed out that he has apologized at various points throughout Facebooks history for the way the social media platform handles users data.Bee had some sharp words for Zuckerberg. But then she cleverly pointed out that like almost everyone else in the media, she depends on Facebook to get content to viewers.Hey, you oatmeal-colored tadpole man! Youd better knock it off with the Who, me? Im just a cute little millennial schtick. You are one of the most powerful men in the world. You built this monster and it made you rich. It is your job to kill it. Get this shit under control before you oopsie another genocide. I mean, if you dont mind, sir. I mean, please dont tank our Facebook videos. Dont forget to like and share!  SAMANTHA BEEThe Punchiest Punchlines (Nobel Edition)7-Eleven has announced theyre going to be offering healthier options for their customers. Thats nice. The C.E.O. said, We want our customers to live to be as old as one of our hot dogs.  CONAN OBRIENA group of House Republicans has nominated President Trump for a Nobel Peace Prize. As evidence, they pointed out that Trump has managed to avoid an all-out war with North Korea, and Melania.  CONAN OBRIENMueller said he could issue a subpoena for the president to appear before a grand jury. I dont know about that. I understand what youre saying, but if you want Trump to show up, you cant threaten to slap him with a subpoena  you have to offer to spank him with it.  STEPHEN COLBERT, making a reference to one of the actress Stephanie Cliffords claims about an affair with TrumpThe Bits Worth WatchingBee didnt just take on Zuckerberg. In the wake of the White House correspondents dinner, she had a few things to say about Sarah Huckabee Sanders, too.On Late Night, Amber Ruffin said she didnt appreciate Kanye Wests suggestion that slavery was a choice. So she struck back by refuting Wests argument  and by butchering the entire genre of hip-hop with her own horrendous rap.What Were Excited About on Thursday NightThe comedians Steve Martin and Martin Short co-star in An Evening You Will Forget for the Rest of Your Life, a Netflix special out May 25. Theyll speak to Jimmy Fallon on Thursday.Also, Check This OutThere was a moment last month when it seemed the only thing many people wanted to talk about  all right, aside from the continuing drama at the White House  was Beyoncs knockout performance at Coachella. Heres a look at the choreographers who helped put the multifaceted routine together.
