(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. President Trump contradicted his earlier statements that he knew nothing of a payment to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who says she had an affair with him.Writing on Twitter, Mr. Trump suggested that the payment from his lawyer, Michael Cohen, came from a monthly retainer he paid and could not be considered a campaign contribution.The tweets had far more formal and legalistic language than his typical morning messages to the world, and came after one of his attorneys, Rudy Giuliani, said the same during an interview on Fox News.Our correspondent writes that the episode suggests that the president is losing control of his narrative, and it could come back to haunt him._____2. Remember who your real friends are. That was the message that Chinas foreign minister delivered to North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, ahead of Mr. Kims meeting with President Trump later this month.Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim now appear likely to meet at Panmunjom, the truce village in the Demilitarized Zone where the leaders of the two Koreas met recently, above.A Trump-Kim encounter would be a triumph for President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, who helped bring the sworn enemies to the table._____3. The American military is stepping up its role in the war against Houthi rebels in Yemen. Above, a Houthi fighter in the capital, Sana.A Times investigation has learned that a team of Green Berets arrived on the Saudi-Yemen border in December. Its mission: help locate and destroy the Houthis ballistic missiles and launch sites.The operation appears to contradict Pentagon statements that U.S. military assistance to the Saudi-led campaign is limited to aircraft refueling, logistics and intelligence sharing._____4. When Americans hear the name Benghazi, many recall the mob attack in 2012 that killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya.But thats when the real fight began. Two years after that attack, the city was plunged into all-out war between Islamist militias and a coalition of local fighters. Last December, the coalition won, but at a huge cost. This video diary from our correspondent shows the toll in the city.And it includes a visit to the diplomatic compound that came under attack in 2012._____5. The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, has come under fire for renting a room in Washington that was owned by the wife of a lobbyist with business before the agency.As a state senator in Oklahoma 15 years ago, Mr. Pruitt went even further. He bought a home in the state capital with a registered lobbyist who was pushing for changes to workers compensation rules  changes that Mr. Pruitt championed in the legislature.Mr. Pruitt never publicly disclosed his financial relationship with the lobbyist, Justin Whitefield, who died in 2006._____6. The actress Ashley Judd, above, is suing Harvey Weinstein for the damage she says he did to her career after she rebuffed his advances.Our investigative reporter Jodi Kantor discusses the case on our podcast The Daily. (Ms. Kantor, along with Megan Twohey, broke the Weinstein story, and the two are working on a book about the #MeToo movement.)On the same episode, we talk to three women who helped establish an affirmative consent policy for sex at Antioch College in 1990. You can hear more from them in this video._____7. How did the police crack the Golden State Killer case?We talked to the detective who decided to use genealogy to try and solve a case that had bedeviled investigators for 40 years. He applied techniques that had been used in only one other known case, the Bear Brook Murders, in New Hampshire. (Above, Terry Peder Rasmussen, who is believed to have carried out those killings.)Back in January, investigators began piecing together genetic links between the suspect and users of the ancestry site GEDmatch, which was also used in the New Hampshire case. They scoured DNA and census records, to build out a family tree going back to the suspects great-great-great grandparents._____8. A North Carolina high school student might have broken a record.Jasmine Harrison applied to 115 colleges and universities across the country  and got into 113 of them, with scholarships totaling more than $4 million.Shes an exceptional student with a 4.0 grade point average; she hopes to become a neonatal intensive care unit nurse.In the end, she decided to stay close to home, at Bennett College in Greensboro. Its a small, historically black college for women and it offered Ms. Harrison a full scholarship._____9. The poet Julia de Burgos left Puerto Rico at 25, vowing never to return. But in her absence, she became one of the islands most famous writers.Mystery surrounds her death in New York at 39. But she was posthumously recognized as the literary foremother of the Nuyorican movement. In her work, she defied social norms and championed the islands independence.De Burgos is the subject of the latest obituary in our Overlooked series, which chronicles the lives of notable figures who did not get Times obituaries at the time of their deaths. Explore the full series here._____10. Finally, Ali Wong, the stand-up comedian whose Netflix special Baby Cobra became a breakthrough hit, has a sequel (and a new baby) on the way.She filmed Baby Cobra during her first pregnancy. Our writer called it a deliriously filthy and funny hour of comedy woven into a sneakily feminist assault on the double standards of parenting. Her new show, Hard Knock Wife, comes out on May 13.On the late-night shows, Stephen Colbert riffed on the assertion by President Trumps former physician, Harold Bornstein, that Mr. Trump dictated a glowing doctors note.I guess that explains these other doctors notes, like this one from Trumps dentist: Most teeth ever. Much longer tongue than Obama. And his podiatrists report: Feet of a god, unless theres a draft, in which case bone spurs. Sad!Have a great night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
