WASHINGTON  It was supposed to be a town hall meeting where Iowa ranchers could ask questions directly of Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency. But when the agency learned that anyone would be free to ask anything, they decided to script the questions themselves.My sincere apologies, an E.P.A. official wrote to the rancher who would be moderating the event. We cannot do open q&a from the crowd. She then proposed several simple questions for him to ask Mr. Pruitt, including: What has it been like to work with President Trump?Details about the December event, and dozens of other official appearances from Mr. Pruitts scandal-plagued first year at the E.P.A., have until now been hidden from public view as a result of an extraordinary effort by Mr. Pruitt and his staff to maintain strict secrecy about the bulk of his daily schedule.But a new cache of emails offer a detailed look inside the agencys aggressive efforts to conceal his activities as a public servant. The more than 10,000 documents, made public as part of a Freedom of Information lawsuit by the Sierra Club, show that the agencys close control of Mr. Pruitts events is driven more by a desire to avoid tough questions from the public than by concerns about security, contradicting Mr. Pruitts longstanding defense of his secretiveness.Time and again, the files show, decisions turn on limiting advance public knowledge of Mr. Pruitts appearances in order to control the message. The emails, many of which are communications with Mr. Pruitts schedulers, show an agency that divides people into friendly and unfriendly camps and that, on one occasion  involving a secret visit to a Toyota plant last year  became so focused on not disclosing information that Mr. Pruitts corporate hosts expressed confusion about the trip.[How Pruitts Aides Work to Shield the Boss: Seven Quotes]The security aspect is smoke and mirrors, said Kevin Chmielewski, Mr. Pruitts former deputy chief of staff for operations, who is one of several former E.P.A. officials who have said that they were fired or sidelined for disagreeing with Mr. Pruitts management practices. He didnt want anybody to question anything, Mr. Chmielewski said, adding that Mr. Pruitt just doesnt understand what its like to be a public figure.Mr. Pruitt testified before Congress last month that Mr. Chmielewski had resigned.Three other current and former agency officials, who asked not to be identified because they still work for the government, expressed similar views.The E.P.A. did not respond to requests for comment about the documents, which detail Mr. Pruitts plans for travel and appearances nationwide. In the past, E.P.A. officials have said that Mr. Pruitt has faced an unprecedented number of death threats, which account for the size of his security force and the agencys refusal to make public his daily schedule.All politicians are attuned to image-building, of course, and employ staffs whose job is to control the environments in which they appear. Mr. Pruitt, though, has carried the practice to an extreme.Breaking with all of his predecessors at the E.P.A. for the last 25 years, as well as other members of President Trumps cabinet, he does not release a list of public speaking events and he discloses most official trips only after they are over. Mr. Pruitt doesnt hold news conferences, and in one episode, journalists who learned of an event were ejected from the premises after an E.P.A. official threatened to call the police.The E.P.A. also declined to make public Mr. Pruitts detailed calendar until the agency was sued by The New York Times and other organizations.More recently, the agency moved to require that any documents related to Mr. Pruitt that are gathered as a result of Freedom of Information requests be provided to his political aides 48 hours in advance for an awareness review before they are made public, to insure that leadership is aware of public disclosures, a June email said.Mr. Pruitt currently faces 11 investigations into his spending and management at the E.P.A., many of which stem from the appetite for secrecy. He is under investigation for first-class travel at taxpayer expense, his elaborate security detail and the installation at a cost of $43,000 of a soundproof booth for making telephone calls.Separately, a New York Times investigation found that, in 2003 when he served as a legislator in Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt bought a home in a transaction that involved two lobbyists with business before the state, and disguised the purchase by using a shell company.The emails document Mr. Pruitts top aides taking steps to block the public from his appearances.For example, at the Nevada, Iowa, event for ranchers, organizers of the event informed the E.P.A. that they had already announced that it would be open. The gathering, to celebrate Mr. Pruitts plans to repeal an Obama-era water regulation that many ranchers dislike, has been sold as a town hall meeting  meaning anyone could ask questions  wrote Bill Couser, an Iowa cattle farmer who was helping to organize the event, in an email to the E.P.A.In Washington, E.P.A. officials objected.With a crowd of 300 people plus open press, we have to stick with the questions we currently have, Millan Hupp, Mr. Pruitts scheduling director, replied.The agency prevailed. Mr. Pruitt answered questions presented to him by Mr. Couser that were written by E.P.A. officials, according to the emails and a video recording of the event.Efforts like these to prevent reporters from attending events were not a part of the playbook for past E.P.A. administrators, according to spokeswomen for Christine Todd Whitman, who served in the George W. Bush administration, and Lisa Jackson and Gina McCarthy, who served under President Barack Obama. They didnt selectively inform the press or take any steps to keep things secret, Heather Grizzle, a spokeswoman for Ms. Whitman, said.Mr. Pruitt takes a different approach. The emails show agency officials defining prospective guests at events as friendly or unfriendly, and reorganizing events at the last minute if there were concerns that people who are considered unfriendly might show up.Sixteen friendly Industry leaders will be invited to attend they will arrive at 8:30 with the Administrator expected to arrive at 9:00 a.m., said one memo, shared among top E.P.A. officials last September, in advance of a visit by Mr. Pruitt to Colorado Springs, Colo., where he was scheduled to speak to the National Association of Homebuilders. The event was closed to the public and not announced publicly ahead of time.Gerald M. Howard, the organizations top executive, will moderate Q&A on Industry issues set forth in advance and possibly from the audience  who are all industry friendly and supportive of Mr. Pruitt and his efforts, the description said.In another instance, after a Missouri news outlet discovered, and tweeted, that Mr. Pruitt was planning to speak to about 150 representatives of electric cooperatives and power-plant owners last April, E.P.A. staff went into damage-control mode.The meeting had not been publicly disclosed. Tate Bennett  who, as associate administrator at the E.P.A., is in charge of environmental education  asked Barry Hart of the Association of Missouri Electric Cooperatives if the news organization, Missouri Network Television, was the friendly outlet.Mr. Hart replied, It is, but since its a public tweet you have to assume the world now knows including all news media  even unfriendly.Shaun Kober, founder of Missouri Network Television, said we just try to lay out the facts.A public relations consultant for the Association of Missouri Electric Cooperatives, in consultation with the E.P.A., had already discussed a strategy to counteract any negative comments that appeared on social media.Our plan will be to promote the feel-good activity and news from the event, Gus Wagner, a public relations executive working with organizers, wrote in one email shared with the E.P.A. Comments that are positive will be liked and possibly shared, he wrote. Comments that are derogatory and/or abusive will be hidden from public view. Commenter receives no notification this hiding has happened.Sometimes the E.P.A.s approach to public relations  issuing announcements only after events were over  confused its hosts. Among them was Stephen Ciccone, a vice president for government affairs at Toyota Motor North America, which organized a visit by Mr. Pruitt to its Texas auto plant in August.I thought you all did not want any press coverage? Mr. Ciccone wrote, unsure as to why the E.P.A. would issue a news release at all.An email back from the E.P.A. explained the plan. The agency welcomed coverage as long as it was on the agencys terms.A release would be made highlighting all the stops Administrator Pruitt makes during his visit to Texas, the email said. As planned, government-issued photos of a smiling Mr. Pruitt and executives from Toyota were posted on the E.P.A.s website soon after the event was over, describing it as an action tour.The effort to control the event almost fell apart when one journalist caught wind of the trip.We just received an inquiry from a CBS News reporter in Dallas about the visit, Mr. Ciccone wrote to the E.P.A. on the day of the event. We wont reply until the visit is over.One of Mr. Pruitts early events described in the files, held just a month after he had started his new job as E.P.A. administrator, was an invitation-only breakfast at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Washington before some 250 executives from the nations largest electric utilities. Mr. Pruitt had spent the previous six years as Oklahomas attorney general attacking E.P.A. regulations in court, often in coordination with energy giants.Whoever said you cant have your cake and eat it too, doesnt know what to do with cake, Mr. Pruitt told the energy executives, according to a speech prepared for the March 2017 event.His remarks, which have not previously been made public, indicated that utilities had gained an ally with his appointment. He intended to expand energy production, he said, while protecting the environment. But, among other things, he described his effort to repeal the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, which was designed to slow climate change by reducing carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants.The future aint what it used to be, Mr. Pruitt said, invoking a Yogi Berra line that he would return to in speeches.In another instance not previously made public, Mr. Pruitt last June aided one of his longtime supporters, Richard Smotkin, who at that time was a Comcast lobbyist and who later helped organize Mr. Pruitts controversial trip to Morocco. (A month after that December trip, Mr. Smotkin became a $40,000-a-month foreign agent promoting Moroccos interests abroad.)Mr. Smotkins June request ran into ethics questions within the E.P.A.: He had invited Mr. Pruitt to a fund-raiser for a nonprofit group that Mr. Smotkin helps run, the American Council of Young Political Leaders, which offers foreign-exchange programs for emerging political leaders. At the event, Mr. Pruitt would be presented with an award in the form of a globe engraved with his name.The Ethics department is asking me these questions about the event, wrote Sydney Hupp, a scheduler for Mr. Pruitt who is the sister of Millan Hupp, the scheduling director. (Both are former Pruitt campaign aides.) The questions had to do with the appropriateness of receiving an award at a fund-raising event.After a series of emails, Millan Hupp wrote back to the staff at the nonprofit group with a solution: Dont refer to Mr. Pruitts job during the presentation.Yes, the Administrator may attend the event, and yes, he may receive the globe. But please do ensure that they refer to him as the Honorable (as opposed to the EPA Administrator) Ms. Hupp wrote. So, yay! Its been approved through ethics.
