This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.I spent some of last week digging into the financial statements of Barnes & Noble, and I was shocked at how bad they are. Revenue from its website and from Nook (the companys e-reader) has plummeted. Sales inside its stores are falling, too. Its plausible that Barnes & Noble will not survive.Some of its problems stem from poor decisions by its management. But keep in mind that Borders  once the countrys other big bookstore chain  went out of business in 2011. So some larger forces are at work here.What are they? The growing power of gigantic technology firms like Amazon. Theyre strong enough to create existential problems for their rivals. And as much as many of us  including me  may enjoy Amazons service, I think its also important to recognize the larger problems that Big Tech behemoths are causing.Amazons growing dominance isnt good for the book business or for the country. My column this morning explains why. I hope youll read it and, if you have thoughts, send me an email at leonhardt@nytimes.com.On the same subject, I recommend a Yale Law Review article by Lina Khan. (Dont worry: Despite being a law review article, its well-written and easy for non-lawyers to understand.) You can also read a 2017 Times op-ed by Khan; a 2015 letter on Amazons business practices by Authors United and the Open Markets Institute; and a story in yesterdays Times about Margrethe Vestager, a Danish regulator trying to crack down on Big Tech.The Rudy chronicles. In The Washington Post, Jennifer Rubin  herself a former lawyer writes that Rudy Giuliani is severely out of his depth when discussing campaign-finance law. But The New Yorkers John Cassidy notes that Giuliani is basically adhering to the presidents own playbook to undermine the Mueller probe. Trumps primary legal strategy is a public-relations one, Cassidy writes.Either way, the Rudy-and-Trump show has bothered even some of the presidents most reliable cheerleaders, including Fox News and The Wall Street Journals editorial board. Thats in large part because Trump and his allies seem incapable of telling a consistent storyor even of sticking to the stories they tell, Politicos Jack Shafer writes.The G.O.P.s core competence. A core fact of our era is that the national Republican Party is politically effective only as a vehicle for anti-liberalism, a rallying point for all the disparate groups who feel threatened by having our cultural elite in full control of government, my colleague Ross Douthat writes. Which means the G.O.P. is often more popular the less it attempts to legislate at all.
