Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Filthy and MeanThe comedian Michelle Wolf has worked on both The Daily Show and Late Night, so Trevor Noah and Seth Meyers were not surprised by the rough-riding, profane speech she gave at the White House correspondents dinner on Saturday.The speech has drawn criticism for its unapologetic attacks on President Trump and, in particular, jokes involving Sarah Huckabee Sanderss makeup (Wolf said her eye shadow was made of burnt facts).Noah and Meyers saw little cause for outrage  especially given Trumps own history of commenting crudely on womens appearances  and they swept to Ms. Wolfs defense on Monday.She is filthy and she is mean  which is what we love about her. Because those are wonderful qualities for comedians, and terrible qualities for free-world leaders.  SETH MEYERS, comparing Michelle Wolf with President TrumpMichelle should have had the decency not to comment on womens appearances in any way, shape or form. Shes a comedian, for Gods sake, not the president.  TREVOR NOAHNoah feigned anger at Wolf  who left The Daily Show months ago to host her own program on Netflix  and told her that she was retroactively fired.I agree completely with President Trump and his team: Comedians should be held to a higher standard than he is. Which is why even though Michelle Wolf left for her new show four months ago, tonight Im announcing that Im officially firing her. You hear that, Michelle? Youre fired!  TREVOR NOAHNot in the SpiritMeyers was especially bothered by the fact that the White House Correspondents Association, which hired Wolf for the evening, put out a statement denouncing Wolf. It said her statements were not in the spirit of the event.You hired her! Thats like a parent sending an email saying, Yesterdays birthday was meant to celebrate Kevin turning 6 years old. Unfortunately the strippers dance routine was not in the spirit of the party.  SETH MEYERSStephen Colberts Alter Ego Revisits His Correspondents Dinner MomentOn The Late Show, Stephen Colbert recalled hosting the correspondents dinner in 2006, when he told intensely sharp-edged jokes at President George W. Bushs expense.Colbert got back into the character that he used to play back then  an over-the-top conservative commentator  and opined about Wolfs performance on Saturday.Ive been busy collaborating with Kanye West on an album of Republican hip-hop. Its called My Beautiful Dark Twisted Reality.  STEPHEN COLBERTI want to congratulate Michelle Wolf for being so lucky to have me Steve-splain everything she did wrong.  STEPHEN COLBERTThis is the correspondents dinner, celebrating the freedom of speech; you cant just say whatever you want!  STEPHEN COLBERTHow dare you besmirch the O.K. name of Sarah Huckabee Sanders?  STEPHEN COLBERTI am so proud, right down to the breastbone, that the press is defending her despite the fact that her boss joked about throwing reporters in jail. Thats the kind of comedy the press likes!  STEPHEN COLBERT, on Sarah Huckabee SandersThe Punchiest Punchlines (Louis Arthur Charles Edition)Saturday was the White House correspondents dinner, and Trump called it a very big, boring bust. This was the first time in history Trump has called a big bust boring.  JIMMY FALLONThe royal family just announced the name of William and Kates newborn son, Louis Arthur Charles. I guess they couldnt decide on a royal-sounding name, so they just went with all of them.  JIMMY FALLONStormy Daniels is suing President Trump for defamation for something he said in a tweet. When they heard this, Muslims, African-Americans, gays and Hillary Clinton said, You can do that?  CONAN OBRIENThis could be a bigly victory for President Trump. The president of South Korea said he thinks Trump should win a Nobel Prize for Peace. Hairpiece, he said  but thats in the translation.  JIMMY KIMMEL, on the peace talks underway between North and South KoreaThe Bits Worth WatchingThese records are atrocious.If you thought Michelle Wolf was making fun of people viciously, check out how these random Twitter users talk about the Avengers stars.What Were Excited About on Tuesday NightJimmy Kimmels two guests on Tuesday night are both big-ticket names, but they come from opposite ends of the cultural spectrum: Miley Cyrus and Senator Elizabeth Warren. What are they going to talk about?Also, Check This OutOur chief TV critic doesnt share the feeling of outrage held by Wolfs dissenters. He writes that her speech was scathing, confrontational and impolite. It was, in other words, about what youd expect from a correspondent who once called President Trump a racist fake gynecologist.
