In honor of World Press Freedom Day on May 3, The New York Times tweeted the GIF below:What is your reaction to the tweet? Do you agree with its message? Why or why not?Do you get news from multiple sources? Do you think doing so is important?In Turkish Cartoonist Wins Prize on World Press Freedom Day, Reuters reports:A Turkish caricaturist facing more than three years in jail won the International Press Drawing Prize on Thursday, an award given every two years to leading cartoonists, especially those working under authoritarian regimes.Musa Kart of the opposition newspaper Cumhuriyet was one of 14 staff handed sentences last month ranging from 2 1/2 to 7 1/2 years on charges of supporting Fethullah Gulen, the U.S.-based Muslim cleric that Ankara blames for a 2016 attempted coup. They have denied the charges.Kart, 64, was sentenced to three years and nine months and is banned from travel pending his appeal. After the coup attempt, he spent nine months in prison.My beloved newspaper is currently surrounded by those who are uncomfortable with its journalism and want to silence it completely by threatening heavy punishments, Kart said in a message read out by his daughter, Seran Uney, to a ceremony in Geneva on Thursday, marking World Press Freedom Day.The staff of the Istanbul newspaper, long seen as a thorn in the side of President Tayyip Erdogan, is one of the few remaining voices critical of the government.The jury of the Cartooning for Peace Foundation includes cartoonists Jean Plantu of France and Patrick Chappatte of Switzerland, and Ken Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch.They make the award based on cartoonists approach and commitment  especially if their cartoons were published in a political context of repression and censorship.In an Opinion essay from May 6, 2017, Carol Giacomo gives more background on the conflict in Turkey and speaks to its implications for a free press:With some 163 of their fellow journalists in jail, the men and women of Turkeys news media are understandably fearful. Many of those who avoided prison as part of President Recep Tayyip Erdogans sweeping crackdown on alleged enemies after a July coup attempt have lost their jobs at media outlets taken over by Mr. Erdogans cronies. Some of those still working censor themselves in self-defense.In such an environment, even getting together to talk about challenges to the fast-fading press freedoms in Turkeys ever-shrinking democracy is an act of courage. That happened on Wednesday when Platform24, an Istanbul-based nonprofit fighting for journalists right to do their jobs, held an event to celebrate World Press Freedom Day with a lecture honoring the late Mehmet Ali Birand, one of the countrys most admired journalists. Given Mr. Erdogans tendency for retaliation, the Swedish consul general, Therese Hyden, also deserves credit for hosting the event.The mood this year, however, was anything but celebratory, and for obvious reasons. Under Mr. Erdogans authoritarian rule, not just an independent press but many rights and freedoms have sharply deteriorated. Instead, the mood was somber as Platform24s staff performed a kind of dirge, reading the names of imprisoned colleagues one by one.We want them to know, we want their families to know, we want their readers and audiences to know, and we want the government to know that they are not alone, said Yasemin Congar, one of Platform24s founders.Journalism is not a crime, she added.Students: Read the entire article, then tell us: In your opinion, what is the purpose of journalism? What is its role in society? How does it serve individuals? What values and ideals do you think quality journalism should uphold and defend and why? How important is it for a country  and the world  to have a free press? Why do you think so? Are there any topics or opinions that you think should be censored in the press? Or should journalists have absolute freedom of speech? Ms. Giacomo writes that President Trump has become a threat  to the free press in America with relentless attempts to delegitimize any reputable media outlet that dared criticize him. What do you think of this statement? Should high-powered politicians and world leaders be able to denounce media they disagree with? Why or why not?Related: The Media Literacy Student Challenge we ran last fall invited students to explore their relationships with news, in part by varying and expanding their sources, and provided a lesson plan to help. Here are 10 things we learned as a result, along with some winning student essays and videos.Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
