A few years ago, a friend and I decided to take a little road trip after weathering the extreme air-conditioned conference rooms of Las Vegas.Heading out to Red Rock Canyon at dawn, we hiked up a sandstone cliff, watched the sun raise its white-hot head over the Vegas valley, and then tripped down a shady trail in our hiking boots before the day got too warm.It was there, as I paused to take a photo in a little rock canyon, that I heard my name called more sharply than Id ever heard it before. There was no question about its urgency; my friend was commanding me to run, to run now, to run fast. And I obeyed immediately, a little frantically, dropping my sunglasses. There, she said, pointing to where I had just stood. Theres a rattlesnake there.The two of us often laughed about how she saved my life. But I couldnt save hers. My friend was Anna Dewdney, the author and illustrator of the popular Llama Llama childrens book series. Barely a year after that trip, she learned she had glioblastoma, a brain cancer. Just over a year after that, I lost one of my best friends. I am a childrens book editor and our relationship was the longest Id had with an author, one that survived 25 years despite a beginning filled with rejections.When many people hear the words llama llama they think of a beige, fuzzy, long-necked little llama, often decked out in his signature red pajamas. But what comes to my mind is his truly beautiful creator with her flowing dark gold hair, long-legged stride and down-to-earth nature. We took to each other from the get-go. When Anna landed in my mid-Manhattan office with her portfolio and a roundly pregnant belly in the early 90s, we were both in our 20s. We shared similar self-deprecating sensibilities and a serious desire to create. Her soft colored-pencil drawings and sweet rhymes were not without promise, but we were both fairly green and our professional aspirations werent quite ready for public consumption. We had miles to go. Years.While we filled those years with very different details  two daughters and a cobbled together life in the Vermont countryside for her; a marriage and move to Brooklyn for me  we kept up our rapport with holiday greetings, illustrated notes, and the early struggles of an author finding her voice and an editor finding her style. We both wanted to make something worthy and lasting.And she kept showing me her ideas. Rhymes about funny farm animals and tales about monsters that go moo in the night. I admired her determination, and her rhymes were better than most and didnt try to mimic the most famous picture book poet of the time, but while Im sure I said yes to a lot worse, I think I knew she had something better in her. And she was willing to wait. Or maybe life just got distracting. Ive wanted to send you book ideas, she wrote in 2000, but I was frantically busy  and then decided that my marriage was over. But the dust has settled, and we all seem to be (knock wood) O.K.It would be a few more years, but it wasnt long before it got better than O.K. Spotting a llama one day from her car (this was the Vermont countryside), her daughters asked her what a llama said. She opened her mouth  and nothing came out. What did a llama say? She was stumped. But not for long. So began the life of a now beloved childrens book character.Author-editor friendships can be tricky. There are complicated contracts to negotiate, criticism of text and art to cautiously unveil, and the capriciousness of actual sales. But since Anna and I had been through a dozen years of the equivalent of a courtship, finally getting hitched as author and editor seemed a natural next step. In fact, we were both thrilled it was finally paying off.An even better payoff, once Llama Llama found its footing on best-seller lists, was hanging out together. Despite our very different places of residence, we were more alike than not. We both enjoyed physical exertion (running for her, playing squash and biking for me), a drink at the end of the day (bourbon her, beer me), and a taste for rambling road trips. We discovered the latter after a book conference in Phoenix, renting a car and driving up the winding, ear-popping Black Canyon Freeway toward Sedona. I found a bed-and-breakfast in Oak Creek and we spent two blue sky days scrambling up red rocks, attempting handstands among cactuses, and refueling with burritos and mojitos at roadside diners.Anna seemed happiest in the places she had created, her spacious art studio and the ever-changing landscape around the old Vermont house she had enthusiastically restored. She had created topiaries of a few of the characters from her books, so she could tend them outside as well as in her studio. I imagined her figuring out rhymes and adding new lines as she clipped their leafy green hooves and ears.As Anna honed her read-aloud rhymes, she also developed a distinct voice in her emails. Yikes! Back to life as I used to know it, she wrote one autumn, while juggling picture book making with teaching and family.   crazy crazy crazy! Whoosh to faculty meetings, whoosh to theater class, whoosh to radiology (Berol may have torn a tendon in her ankle). And back to check on the drying of my paint.Her lively correspondence made people want to respond, to keep the conversation going. Until we couldnt. Yup, its bad, she wrote me in the spring of 2015. I have a glio 4, and an ambitious one. But with a determination she had always demonstrated in her writing and rewriting, she continued to get back up from the seizures and falls and emergency room visits. She wrote and drew and emailed as long as she could.On an exquisite September morning in 2016 I received her last email. I love you, Tracy Jane, she concluded. And I think I knew, Anna was no longer there to read my reply.
