What does the phrase student voice mean to you? What would it look like if you were to illustrate the concept?Thats the challenge we put to you as we start to design our page for the June edition of The New York Timess new quarterly Learning section.We will be featuring some of the best writing from the nearly 10,000 teenagers who entered this springs Student Editorial Contest and wrote passionate, thoughtful essays on the issues they care about most  and wed love to have student-created art to go with it.So we invite you to draw or paint, by hand or with computer assistance, an original illustration that depicts the notion of student voice, whatever that means to you.Below, we explain the logistical details, and, for inspiration, list some of the most popular topics teenagers wrote about for our contest.But if you would like to better understand what illustration means in this context, we suggest you check out the professional artists who publish in The Times.For starters, scroll through The Year in Illustration 2017, which showcases wonderful work and explains that: Every year The New York Times commissions thousands of original illustrations from independent artists around the globe. Artists are asked to distill the most compelling aspects of stories and create a powerful experience. They often have just hours to make images that move, provoke and enrich the act of reading.This is, broadly speaking, your challenge, too: Distill an idea (student voice) and provoke and enrich the act of reading editorials on a range of topics by people your own age.Good luck, and please send your entry (or entries) to LNFeedback@nytimes.com by May 16 at 6 p.m. Eastern. ________The DetailsYour task: Create an illustration that depicts the concept of student voice.Please keep in mind that we are not looking for images that depict just one issue (say, for example, gun control), but, instead, would like illustrations that focus on the broad idea that teenagers are interested in, affected by, and want a say about a range of issues.As for what that range of issues could be, here are some of the topics that were most written about for our editorial contest. Though we havent chosen winners yet and thus cant share with you any of the essays themselves, we encourage you to let this range inspire your work: gender equality immigration social media student activism gun control standardized testing the college process the Trump administrations environmental policies criminal justice reform voting rights and lowering the voting age_________The technical and logistical details: You can draw or paint, by hand or with the assistance of a digital program such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, GIMP, Macromedia Freehand, CorelDraw or another graphics editing program. Your RBG or black and white images should be sent as jpegs at 300 dpi. If you use words in your piece, please make sure they are in black so they show up well in print. You are welcome to send more than one submission. Please send your work to us via our email at LNFeedback@nytimes.com, with the subject line Illustration by 6 p.m. Eastern on Wednesday, May 16. Tell us your name and age, and where you go to school. Anyone 13 to 19 years old, from anywhere in the world, is eligible to participate. For every piece we publish, we will pay $75.Questions? Comments? Post them here, or write to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com and well answer as quickly as we can. Keep in mind that this is the first time weve ever done a call-out like this, so your questions may help us clarify our directions for everyone.Thank you, and good luck!
