Good Wednesday morning.Welcome to the warm spell.For the next few days, were getting a full serving of spring  sun-soaked streets and temperatures in the 80s.After our unusually long and unusually brutal winter, the warmer temperatures were welcomed yesterday by a New York that felt lively, grateful and, by late afternoon, a little woozy.We explored the city with the photographer Stephen Speranza to see how New Yorkers were enjoying their first taste of heat.We came across people in similar states of suspension  eyes closed and faces tilted toward the sun, like humanoid solar panels switched on for the very first time.Others went all in, shedding clothes and shoes. In Washington Square Park, they enjoyed an afternoon of jazz from a quartet and a solo saxophonist, who were only occasionally drowned out by May Day activists chants of S se puede!Desks in college classrooms across the city were, presumably, empty as students like Nicole Defjan, 18, a freshman at New York University, ditched class to enjoy the sun.Statistics is a subject for gloomy weather, Ms. Defjan said.For the first time this season we noticed the scent of cherry blossoms in the air, and met gardeners putting perennials in parks, sidewalk pots and medians around town.Lunch was a scene  held al fresco on terraces and stoops and park benches and picnic blankets. At times, in the West Village, it seemed like every door and window that could be opened, was.By midafternoon, some New Yorkers, perhaps not yet accustomed to the heat, began to get sluggish, and we spotted people dozing off in every park and pedestrian plaza we passed.Even the uneven boulders of Central Park became an irresistible nesting ground.Thats where we found Edgar Clausse, 37, an artist who was killing time before a dance audition at the Metropolitan Opera.We gently roused Mr. Clausse from his sleep to ask him a pressing question about the weather. Like many New Yorkers we spoke to, he was too warm and relaxed to put up hardened city slicker vibes.This is excellent, Im just crashing into the sky, he said. Napping, man.Before long, we noticed workers returning, hazy-eyed, to their air-conditioned offices. At least theyll get to do it all again today.Prepare for another sunny day, with highs in the mid-80s. The heat has settled in until the weekend, which looks cooler, though stunning as well.Heres what else is happening:In the News Just four weeks into his tenure as chancellor, Richard Carranza is taking on segregation in New York City schools. [New York Times] The mayor has said schools are segregated because housing is. But a new study on school choice shows its not that simple. [New York Times] Prosecutors are preparing to retry John Giuca for the 15-year-old murder of a New Jersey college student. [New York Times] Daniel Loeb, the chairman of the board at Success Academy Charter Schools, is ending his five-year run in that position. [New York Times] Mayor Bill de Blasio has flown across the country to promote his brand of progressivism. As it turns out, he only needed to look 10 miles across the river to find an ally. [New York Times] After 12 years on the run, a man has been arraigned in court for smuggling heroin through purebred puppies for a Colombian cartel. [New York Times] A series of suicides in the taxi and livery driver industry has renewed demands to rein in ride-hailing services in the city. [New York Times] Everett Fahy, a scholar who led the Frick Collection and the Metropolitan Museum of Arts European paintings department, died at 77. [New York Times] The Shed, a new arts center planned for the Far West Side of Manhattan, is still a years worth of construction away. But its creators are serving up two weeks of art events to entice New Yorkers with an early look of whats to come. [New York Times] Not without obstacles, Newarks mayor has been proving to be good for business. [WNYC] Students at the City University of New York are calling for more funding as its infrastructure deteriorates. [Bklyner] Have you been anxiously waiting for the signal work to finish on the No. 7 train? Well, you may have to wait a bit longer. [Sunnyside Post] Todays Metropolitan Diary: Lonely Highway For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Coming Up Today A discussion Math for Democracy: The Mathematics of Voting Redistricting at the National Museum of Mathematics in Midtown Manhattan. 4 and 7 p.m. [Free] Learn how to grow crops used in Korean cooking at the Kissena Corridor Park in Flushing, Queens. 5:30 p.m. [Free] Visit an exhibition of more than 3,000 recently discovered images of the citys parks in 1978, at the Arsenal in Central Park near East 64th Street. 6 to 8 p.m. [Free] Screenings of Its My Turn and Joyce at 34, part of the film series A Different Picture: Women Filmmakers in the New Hollywood Era, 19671980, at Bamcinmatek in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. 7 p.m. [$15] The podcast Selected Shorts presents an evening of fiction from the archives of the Paris Review at Symphony Space on the Upper West Side. 7:30 p.m. [$31] Mets host Braves, 7:10 p.m. (SNY). Yankees at Astros, 8:10 p.m. (YES). Alternate-side parking remains in effect until May 10. For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.And Finally...News flash: Not everyone is enjoying this warm weather.Whenever we gleefully write about these temperate days, some of our readers write in, wag their fingers and remind us that not everyone shares our taste in mild weather.We recently asked them why.Absolutely I prefer colder temps. Im blessed with a thick  O.K., fat  neck, and wearing turtlenecks just makes me feel better, like Im hiding something. Thom Wise, 64, West New York, N.J.When the weather suddenly gets warm like it will this week, New York buildings rarely make the adjustment from heating to cooling in time, which means every interior is stiflingly hot and miserable and my skin itches from the sudden change. I feel drained, bloated, greasy. Plus when the city heats up, all the unpleasant smells, like garbage, urine and body odor, emerge to slap you in the face. Lenge Hong, 51, East VillageEveryone looks and feels better in layers. Scarves, hats, boots? Wonderful. But sweat marks, frizzy hair, damp subway seats after booty shorts? Horrible. Gregory Gallagher, 31, Bushwick, BrooklynTheres just something really cozy about adverse weather. The worse the storm, the better. I travel a lot for work, but if I can get away with it, sometimes Ill actually fly back early so I can be home for a storm. Ryan Matzner, 33, Williamsburg, BrooklynWhen youre cold its easy to heat up, but when youre hot theres not a thing you can do to stop the feeling that you might possibly be dying. I think that even if New York were a city of nudists, the temperature would be miserable, but in the winter, well, theres no such thing as bad weather  just bad clothing. Anna Van Dine, 20, East VillageTeam Winter here. Its not that a temperate day is bad, its that cold is exciting. Its that the world during a snowstorm is smaller, quieter, softer. Its that winter is a challenge to be overcome. Its that the world is getting warmer, and summer is a constant reminder of our own imminent, self-made destruction. Spike McCue, 32, Greenpoint, BrooklynNew York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.
