New this week:ORWELL ON TRUTH By George Orwell with an introduction by Adam Hochschild. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $20.) Orwell has become a touchstone for those who see the pursuit of truth as imperiled. It was only a matter of time before his published thoughts about lying and its corrosive effects on politics and society would be gathered together for our worried, contemporary mind. THE GREAT NEW YORK SUBWAY MAP By Emiliano Ponzi. (Museum of Modern Art, $19.95.) We forget that such an everyday object like the New York City subway map was once actually a feat of graphic design. This illustrated book, intended for children but informative for all, reminds us of Massimo Vignellis great innovation. THE WORLD-ENDING FIRE By Wendell Berry. (Counterpoint, $26.) Berry, the defender of rural American lands and communities, holds on fiercely to a dying way of life in this collection of essays. He rails against the mass-produced and tries to rally our appreciation for the natural world. TRIP By Tao Lin. (Vintage, paper, $16.) Lin, the provocateur, produces his first book-length work of nonfiction, an exploration of psychedelic drugs and the realizations they opened up for him. ROOTED COSMOPOLITANS By James Loeffler. (Yale, $32.50.) This year marks two 70th anniversaries: Israels birth and the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Loeffler reminds us how entwined the two events were  both for the role Jews played in codifying human rights and for how Zionism was buoyed by these new international values.& NoteworthyIn which we ask colleagues at The Times what theyre reading now.This month, my book group selected Ayelet Gundar-Goshens WAKING LIONS, an Israeli novel that opens with a jolt: Following a long days work, a neurosurgeon sets out for a relaxing midnight drive through the desert in his S.U.V., only to strike an Eritrean refugee. The victim is dead, and no one is around. Should he report the incident to the police or flee? Dr. Eitan Green chooses to leave the scene. As a reader, I was immediately drawn into the unfolding chain of events. Blackmailed by the dead mans wife and forced to work long hours, unpaid, as a doctor in a makeshift hospital for displaced emigrants, Green lies unconvincingly to conceal his situation from both his wife  a detective who happens to be investigating the hit-and-run  and superiors at his hospital, who cant help noticing his fatigue and distraction. The novel begins like a detective thriller, but becomes much more. As I continued reading, I realized that the author had written a political commentary on racism and the global refugee crisis as much as a story about guilt and human suffering. Stephanie Saul, staff writer 
