Whether your shelves are already groaning with prizes or youre up for your first big honor, it feels good to be nominated for a Tony Award. Here are edited excerpts from conversations with nominees on Tuesday.[Musicals lead nominations | Critics on the nominees | Whos nominated?]Tina Fey and Jeff RichmondThe husband-and-wife duo are longtime collaborators (Tina Fey writes, Jeff Richmond composes music) and had previously worked together on projects with musical components. But Mean Girls represents their first attempt at a full-length musical  and Ms. Feys Broadway debut. It was nominated for 12 awards, including for Ms. Feys book and for the score, by Mr. Richmond and his collaborator Nell Benjamin. REGGIE UGWUHow does it feel to be sharing this moment?TINA FEY Its incredibly thrilling. I am just ecstatic that these nominations are coming to every department  theyre so well deserved. And I cannot lie: I cried a little bit in the middle of Equinox this morning, and not because my workout was too hard  I do not push myself at the gym.JEFF RICHMOND Im just happy for my wife because she so seldom gets any attention or recognition for things she does, so this is just great [laughter].Tina, what is it about this nomination thats affected you in a different way?FEY Well, one, it takes five years to get a show up. And so youre really, really invested in it, and it feels very personal. And two, its such a childhood dream. You go back to when you were a kid and going to see shows  getting a Playbill, dreaming of being in a Playbill some day.The show went through some adjustments before you arrived at the version that was nominated. What was the breakthrough?FEY I think it was the two months between our out-of-town tryout at the National Theater in Washington and rehearsal. All four of us got in a room and just were really bold about cutting and moving things around. We replaced five songs and added all of these book elements and tried to hone the story better.I think the main thing we learned was that we werent feeling for our heroine as much. Even though shes singing from front to back, we needed to adjust some scene work and lyrics and some songs to really get into her heart more.Tina, this is your first experience on Broadway. On a scale of 1-10, how interested are you in returning right now?FEY Oh, 10. I cant wait to start something now that opens when Im 57.Rene FlemingWhen the diva Rene Fleming traded opera for Broadway to appear as Cousin Nettie in Rodgers and Hammersteins Carousel, she confessed to some insecurities. In opera, her powerful voice is expected to fill cavernous theaters without amplification, but the runs are short and there are usually days off between performances. On Broadway, she gets to use a microphone  but must sing in eight shows a week, and talk. She neednt have worried: She was nominated for a Tony for best featured actress in a musical, part of the juggernaut of Carousel nominations. MICHAEL COOPERCongratulations!Thank you! Gosh, Im really grateful, and surprised, to be honest  very surprised.Now that you have some time under your belt as a Broadway trouper after all this time on the opera stage, how is it going? Well, I was worried about the eight shows a week  because our training is so completely different, were so much about power and projecting. But Ive managed to adjust, I think, pretty well. It helps that Im surrounded by such extraordinary musical values. Its made it really fun. And frankly, being home for the first time in my life is pretty special.Youve never had such a long run anywhere, Id imagine.No, not even close!Awards are exciting. Would you like to see awards for opera, or a category in the Tonys?Yes! I dont know if it would be appropriate within the Tonys, per se, but the Classical Brits [a British awards show for classical music that has been on hiatus] is coming back this year, for instance. And I know Lang Lang is very keen that classical music should have an award ceremony as well  so that we could drum up excitement in young people for the art form itself. Thats the beauty of our show, Carousel  to have the classical arts so highly represented between Justin Peck [the choreographer] and ballet and me. Its very exciting to have it noticed in that way.Have you spoken to some of the other nominees from the show?The texts are flying.Ariel StachelAriel Stachel received his first Tony nomination for his performance in the heavily nominated musical The Bands Visit. Mr. Stachel, a Yemeni Israeli who grew up in the Bay Area, plays an Egyptian trumpeter with a libidinous swagger stranded with his bandmates in a sleepy Israeli town. REGGIE UGWUYouve been nominated for your debut performance on Broadway. Whats going through your head right now?Oh my goodness. A mixture of exhaustion, elation, happiness. Im most excited that its in a role that celebrates a heritage that Ive really sort of been ashamed of for many years. The fact that our show is being recognized really shines a positive spotlight on Middle Eastern people, so its sort of like a twofold win for me.How are you processing that shift from the shame you once felt to the pride you feel now?You know, even three years ago, I wasnt comfortable telling people that I was Middle Eastern. I was scared it would limit my career prospects. In college, I was told not to prepare monologues of my own race. So its a seismic shift for me. Its really gratifying from an internal place, from a soulful place, in addition to the career part of it, which is extremely exciting.You auditioned seven times for this role. What did it mean to you?I saw the casting call and knew that I needed to be a part of the show. It felt like my option, my shot. It was a character that happened to be Middle Eastern but had an entire arc that had nothing to do with his culture, which is sort of the meat and potatoes. That was exciting. To get your shot in this business, particularly your first one, it feels almost impossible. I felt so much pressure before each audition that I almost had panic attacks each time. By the seventh one, I actually said to everyone in the room, Were family now, right? That sort of took the pressure off.Did you ever think during that process that the result would be you hearing your name this morning? A hundred million percent no. This is truly beyond my wildest dreams.Do you think this nomination might help create more roles for Middle Eastern actors on Broadway? What do you hope the effect will be?What I really hope is that kids are going to say, Oh, this might be a career path that I can pursue that otherwise might not have seemed like a possibility. I think its really important to see yourself in mainstream media, whether that be theater or TV or movies. So to be recognized in a role that celebrates this heritage, hopefully that allows kids, maybe living in the Bronx or Queens or wherever they are, to say: Oh, this is a viable path. I can do this.Noma DumezweniWhen Noma Dumezweni was cast as Hermione Granger in the West End production of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, it was another success that she did not see for herself after a childhood spent on the run from South African apartheid.But she also had to deal with critics from the deepest corner of Potter fandom, much to the frustration of the author J.K. Rowling: How could a person of color be cast as Hermione? Ms. Dumezweni, a veteran actress, commandingly drowned those voices out, proving to be a standout performer on both continents, culminating with a Tony nomination. SOPAN DEBCongratulations! Where were you when you found out?I was on the toilet. I woke up late in the morning, and I just headed up to the bathroom and picked up the phone. Oh, its Tamara calling! [the actress Tamara Tunie]Girl, youve just been nominated! What? For the Tonys! I was like: Oh my god! Yes! O.K. It was lovely.Do you feel some sort of vindication given some of what you had to deal with when your casting was announced?No. Why I say that is because I never gave that too much power, if that makes sense. My big thing is that I get to work with amazing people. Me as an actor, I do what I do, and I am a black woman and this is just a thing and I get to play Hermione, which is wonderful. But its always about the work. But then what Im more vindicated by is for the creators.Being in the room, watching people at the top of their game: Gareth Fry, Christine Jones [set design], Steven Hoggett [choreographer], John Tiffany [director], Jamie Harrison on magic, Carole Hancock [hair, wigs and makeup], just an amazing group of people to be working with. As actors, we get the shiny stuff. The vindication is that it still works, and its still growing, and it still makes sense. Yes, it still may be the world of Harry Potter, but theatrically, its one of the most amazing things Ive been involved with.My big saying is a word called Ubuntu, a South African word that means I am because they are, and thats what, for me, is the most thrilling thing. Its all joyous.You gave an emotional interview recently in which you expressed amazement that someone who looks like you could make it to Broadway. You also said your expectations of life are limited because of your refugee upbringing. Well, youve made it, and now youre up for a Tony. Are you getting used to this attention? Are you seeing new heights for yourself?I am seeing new heights for myself in terms of possibilities. Because thats what it is. We have these limitations. Every individual has them in certain parts of our lives. Now the dreams are clearer, if that makes sense because the possibilities are there.Im not taking anything for granted. Lets just be a day at a time, a moment at a time. This is all lovely, shiny stuff. Im going to enjoy the next few weeks leading up to the awards ceremony.What characteristics of Hermione Granger do you feel you share?Oh gosh. Ive havent actually been asked that question on a personal level. I hope compassion, wishing the best out of everybody when were collaborating with people. I hope I have that part of her in me.Andrew GarfieldAndrew Garfield first discovered Angels in America when he watched the 2003 HBO mini-series. In a phone interview, Mr. Garfield said he was intimidated when he first dove into the grueling role of Prior Walter, for which he was Tony nominated on Tuesday: I think Id be a lunatic and arrogant if I wasnt healthily reverent to the play itself and the history of productions and people playing the character. SOPAN DEBWhere were you when you found out you were nominated?Probably like most people I was in bed. Its our day off from the show so I was trying and failing to sleep inasmuch as possible. But I was, of course, excited just knowing that the nominations were coming out today. Im usually very good at turning my phone off and getting myself enough sleep. I was just too excited.This is your second Tony nomination. How has this experience compared to Death of a Salesman?Its about five hours longer. Thats the simplest thing.Oh wow, sorry, Im driving past a sculpture that looks like its directly inspired by Angels in America. How bizarre. And I know what the sculpture is. Is it always here? Its by 30 Rock, I think. Its winged and a book in the middle of it, with a serpent crawling up a plate. Do you know the sculpture?I think I do. I dont 100 percent know if its inspired by Angels.I actually dont think it is at all. But its just so weird. Its exactly certain imagery from the play. How bizarre. How wonderful. So what was the question?I was just asking how this was different from Death of a Salesman.Salesman is one of the great American plays since the founding of America. I think the difference is obviously the length. Even though the themes that both plays are dealing with are as deep as it gets in terms of the human experience, and as painful as it gets, I would say that doing Angels is somehow harder, somehow more costly and even more rewarding in a way. Its hard to compare. I would rather not compare because Arthur Miller and his plays are so important to me, as are Tonys.Are you exhausted?Thats the question always. How do you sustain telling the story on a nightly basis? How do you do that without it killing you? Without it burning you out? Im asking that question of myself every day. I think it has a lot to do with trusting, actually. Letting go, getting of the way, trusting Tonys work, trusting Tonys writing, and trusting the brilliance of the other actors on stage and the work that youve done in rehearsals and allowing it to be different every night. Allowing it to be alive every night and dangerous every night and not managing or controlling it too much.LaChanzeLaChanze scored her third Tony nomination as one of three performers who play the title role of Summer: The Donna Summer Musical. She was first nominated for Once on This Island in 1991, and won the prize for The Color Purple in 2006. SOPAN DEBWere you a Donna Summer fan growing up?Of course. I mean, who wasnt? I was an eighties kid, so yeah, definitely. I wasnt old enough to go to the clubs but I still loved her music. It was always about making me feel good and dance and have a good time. What I was more intrigued about in telling her life story was that her journey wasnt as easy as so many of us think. She came from humble beginnings. She worked her butt off to be this amazing musical icon.The reviews for the show have not been great, but its selling well and audiences seem to enjoy it. What do you think accounts for that difference? I think that the theatrical critical community has not found its way appreciation of the jukebox musical yet. Its like characterizing everything in the same way. Theres a category for revivals. Theres a reason theres a category for revivals; the original has already been done. There is no category for music that uses the catalog of an artist. I think something like that should be created, so that we can be critiqued for that and not be compared to a musical that was written with an original score. We havent gotten there but hopefully we will one day.
