Season 1, Episode 7: KodachromeJ. Paul Getty was once said to be the richest man in the world, which sounds like a covetable title. At the very least, it should be nice to be his offspring, if not the man himself. But J. Paul Getty had five sons and  according to Trust  none were very happy about it. Episode 7 provides a deeper look into why, as were finally given the back story for J. Paul Getty II, father to little Paul, whose suffering under Getty Sr. led to despair, addiction and the collapse of his own family.Much of the episode takes place as a series of flashbacks, and were dropped into them through reels of 8 millimeter Kodachrome film, many of which were shot by Paul III. Big Paul sits and watches them in 1973 at his home in London, narrating them in the dark to his girlfriend, Victoria. He has just learned that his sons kidnappers have not killed little Paul after all, and it prompts him down memory lane, in which he revisits a brief period when his own life and his familys future seemed full of promise  and money. Its a far cry from the remorseful and desultory state of existence he currently lives.What Paul doesnt know yet is that Getty has negotiated a deal with the kidnappers to return little Paul for $5 million. The start of the episode shows whats happening behind the scenes: mounds of ransom cash being prepared; Gail in her kitchen with Fletcher Chace, baking a cake for little Paul, who coincidentally is due to be returned on his birthday; and Paul III bathing and dressing in fresh clothes, given to him by the kidnappers. They dont want the world to think that they were just a bunch of Calabrian peasants, after all.As the preparations are made, were brought back to the very beginning of this mess through the Getty home films. Theyre cinematic and pretty, but theyre a little hard to watch because of what we already know about how hard the family will fall. First we see Paul Jr., Gail and a very young little Paul living in California; Paul is pumping gas for the family business. They were poor but happy, Paul Jr. tells Victoria.And with that, the action switches to the past, amid those poor and happy days, when a fateful letter arrives from Paul Sr.: Its time that Paul Jr. come to Rome to discuss his future. Paul Jr. and his young wife and child board one of Gettys private planes  excited and all dressed up  and make their way to Italy.In Rome, Getty takes Paul and his family on a welcome tour, showing them some famous Italian art. It is not exactly a fun field trip for a boy, but Getty is oblivious to everything around him and beckons little Paul over to explain Caravaggios Crucifixion of Saint Peter. They took a hammer and some nails and they banged them straight through his hands and his feet to that piece of wood there  bang, bang, bang, he tells little Paul, who is his captive audience. Then, he continues, they left him hanging there until he was dead. Paul Jr. and Gail stand behind listening, squeamish. But it proves to be an allegory for what Paul Jr. is about to endure: being crucified by his father while working for Getty Oil.The men have dinner to discuss Pauls promotion. Getty tells his son the secret to his own success. Drink, food, sex  appetite, he explains, with a crazed glint in his eye. You need that to succeed. Its an uncomfortable speech to hear a man give to a son. But Getty says he knows Paul has an appetite because he caught him eyeing a pretty waitress.Still theres one kind of appetite that trumps them all, Getty continues, and its an appetite Paul Jr. hasnt truly tasted yet: the appetite for power. A bit of it makes you want a lot of it, and a lot of it makes you want all of it, Getty explains. His expression is almost maniacal, just thinking of the concept. Heh, you want some? he chortles to his son. Its a disturbing, detailed window into Gettys soul; this man does not work like most people.At first Getty seems to toy with Paul intentionally when he offers him a job running Getty Oil in Saudi Arabia. (Saudis not much of a place you know, he tells Paul. Too much sand, not enough sex.) But then out of nowhere he course-reverses, telling Paul Jr. that he can take over operations in Rome instead; Pauls brother Gordon, whom Getty appears to think less of, can take Saudi Arabia. Getty shares this decision as he drinks a white wine he seems displeased with, sitting outside with Paul, Gail and little Paul, whom Getty has just thrown off a dock in order to teach him how to swim  without warning and without his parents consent.Getty wheezes with schadenfreude-like pleasure picturing Gordon in the Middle East. In Rome, Paul will be tasked with making a bloated Italian operation lean and profitable, which for now sounds better than contraband moonshine and veils in Saudi Arabia. Paul and Gail look at each other, hardly able to contain their excitement over their blessed future.Which, of course, is not how things play out. Instead, Getty sets up Paul Jr. for assured failure. He provides no useful tutelage or insight for Paul, who toils away in the dark, making business decisions that Getty overturns every time. Fueled by rage at his fathers treatment, Paul spirals into coke-driven despair and neglects his work. Getty watches his sons nose-dive placidly, as if hed been waiting for it to happen all along.The way Gail explains it to Chace, theres a slice of pure animal in the old man. It doesnt include what most people rely on for sanity, she continues: love, care and compassion. Theres a switch in him that clicks  she snaps her fingers  and its gone.The switch had indeed flipped. Getty fires Paul. The familys unraveling accelerates. Paul and Gail stay married for a while, but Gail had been lonely while Paul worked those late, tortured hours, and they each start relationships with other people. Little Paul watches his parents fall in love with new partners, and he seems to run free with scant oversight. He starts down his own freewheeling, drug-dabbling trail. So much for being an heir to the richest man in the world  or to this one in particular, anyway.Back in 1973, Paul and Getty meet inside a museum after hours to finalize the terms of the ransom payment that Getty has negotiated with Don Salvatore. Getty brags to his son that theyve agreed to $5 million  far under asking price  and that hell pay it with money from the Getty Trust. Paul is beside himself. This is the first apparent act of kindness his father has ever given him, the first time hes given him anything. For a moment, decades of hurt begin to dissolve.But then Paul looks at the contract; its not a gift, its a loan that Paul has to pay back, and its saddled with a 4 percent interest rate. Paul flies into a rage. Youre going to make a profit off the kidnapping of your own grandson, he shouts, tearing up the contract. He cannot believe he thought his dad might have some kindness in him yet.As the episode nears a close, Chace informs Gail in her kitchen that little Paul wont be coming home yet after all. Primo, meanwhile, who has been waiting with little Paul in his car for the ransom money, finally realizes the money isnt coming.Paul spots a newspaper and tells Primo its his birthday. Primo, about to go into a standard Primo rage, cant believe it. Its your birthday, he repeats to Paul, and then screams back at him, Its your death day as well.Spare Change: Getty fan fiction! As Getty shoots clay pigeons on the Sutton place lawn, he is informed (by some kind of private investigator/accountant-like character played by Rob Delaney) that Penelope is having an affair. Gettys aim is dead on, and he hits every clay pigeon. He appears distraught, but he quickly uprights himself and makes a ruthless power move. Take her out of the will, not a single dollar! he commands. No, one single dollar  just one. Its textbook Getty: Push them down, and then kick them while theyre there.
