Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close. Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater.Previews and OpeningsTHE BEAST IN THE JUNGLE at the Vineyard Theater (performances start on May 4; opens on May 23). John Marcher is convinced that something or other lies in wait for him. Could that something be a new musical? The composer John Kander, the playwright David Thompson and the director and choreographer Susan Stroman have transformed Henry Jamess novella into a play centered on dance. The stage version stars Tony Yazbeck and Irina Dvorovenko.212-353-0303, vineyardtheatre.orgTHE BIRDS at St. Anns Warehouse (in previews; opens on May 6). Dreamed of flying away from the current iteration of democracy? Feel free to join a few Athenians with the same goal. Aristophaness comedy, adapted by Nikos Karathanos and Yiannis Asteris and produced by the Onassis Cultural Center, follows two guys looking to create a new society in the clouds.718-254-8779, stannswarehouse.orgBUMP at the Ensemble Studio Theater (previews start on May 9; opens on May 17). Chiara Atiks recent play Five Times in One Night was a smart and sportive history of sex. Her new one, produced by Ensemble Studio Theater and the Sloan Project, explores one of the most common consequences of sex. Claudia Weill directs three thematically linked stories about past and present childbirth.ensemblestudiotheatre.orgDANCE NATION at Playwrights Horizons (in previews; opens on May 8). A playwright with an abiding and sometimes grotesque interest in the female body, Clare Barron comes to Playwrights Horizons with a drama about a preteen dance competition. The director and choreographer Lee Sunday Evans oversees the spangled, cutthroat fun. Eboni Booth, Ellen Maddow and Thomas Jay Ryan star.212-279-4200, playwrightshorizons.orgTHE GENTLEMAN CALLER at the Cherry Lane Theater (previews start on May 5; opens on May 10). William Inge and Tennessee Williams were two of midcentury Americas greatest playwrights. One was closeted; one wasnt. Philip Dawkinss play, directed by Tony Speciale for Abingdon Theater Company, imagines the day when Inge, then a drama critic, first interviewed Williams. Daniel K. Isaac (Billions) and Juan Francisco Villa star.212-352-3101, abingdontheatre.orgLIGHT SHINING IN BUCKINGHAMSHIRE at New York Theater Workshop (in previews; opens on May 7). The director Rachel Chavkin says she wants a revolution, and in this revival of Caryl Churchills 1976 drama, shes exploring insurrection in 17th-century England. Vinie Burrows, Rob Campbell and Mikah Ernest Jennings star in a play about Levellers, Ranters and a time when a nation almost remade itself.212-460-5475, nytw.orgLONG DAYS JOURNEY INTO NIGHT at the BAM Harvey Theater (previews start on May 8; opens on May 12). The Iceman has cometh back to Broadway and all four haunted Tyrones are making their way to Brooklyn. In this production, which arrives from the Bristol Old Vic, Jeremy Irons stars as the great actor James Tyrone with Lesley Manville (The Phantom Thread) as his morphine-wrecked wife.718-636-4100, bam.orgPEACE FOR MARY FRANCES at the Pershing Square Signature Center (previews start on May 8; opens on May 23). The invaluable Lois Smith isnt ready to write her last will and testament. Instead she is starring in Lily Thornes play about a nonagenarian trying to put her affairs in order as three generations of her family help and hinder. For the New Group, Lila Neugebauer directs a cast including J. Smith-Cameron, Johanna Day and Heather Burns.212-279-4200, thenewgroup.orgA PINK CHAIR (IN PLACE OF A FAKE ANTIQUE) at the Performing Garage (in previews; opens on May 9). The Wooster Group pays homage to another avant-garde art star, the visionary Polish director Tadeusz Kantor. Under the direction of Elizabeth LeCompte, the company explores one of Kantors late works, I Shall Never Return. Kantors daughter, Dorota Krakowska, serves as the pieces dramaturge.212-966-3651, thewoostergroup.orgTIMES JOURNEY THROUGH A ROOM at the A.R.T./New York Theaters (previews start on May 10; opens on May 20). Lives arent usually upended by events as extreme as an earthquake and a tsunami and a nuclear catastrophe. But thats what afflicted the people of Fukushima, Japan, and its the subject of Toshiki Okadas new play, his third exploration of the disaster. Dan Rothenberg directs Aya Ogawas translation for the Play Company.866-811-4111, playco.orgWOMAN AND SCARECROW at the Irish Repertory Theater (previews start on May 9; opens on May 20). Marina Carr, one of Irelands most celebrated and haunting playwrights, has never been a woman in need of a brain. In this play, directed by Ciaran OReilly and starring Pamela J. Gray, Stephanie Roth Haberle, Aidan Redmond and Dale Soules, a mother facing death wrestles with an alter ego.212-727-2737, irishrep.orgLast ChanceADMISSIONS at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater at Lincoln Center Theater (closes on May 6). Joshua Harmons uneasy comedy of white privileges and pieties, directed by Daniel Aukin, accepts its final audiences. Jesse Green described this play, set at a semi-elite prep school, as an extraordinarily useful and excruciating satire  of the left, by the left, for the left  for today.212-239-6200, lct.orgHARRY CLARKE at the Minetta Lane Theater (closes on May 13). David Cales solo play about a shy Midwesterner who invents an irresistible alter ego ends its Audible-sponsored encore run. Jesse Green wrote that the plays star, Billy Crudup, appears to be having the time of his life in a sly role terrifically suited to his gifts.800-982-2787, minettalanenyc.comLOBBY HERO at the Helen Hayes Theater (closes on May 13). The security guards at the center of this play will finally lock the doors as the revival of Kenneth Lonergans comic drama, starring Michael Cera, Brian Tyree Henry, Chris Evans and Bel Powley, finishes its run. Ben Brantley wrote that in Trip Cullmans meticulously acted production, the combined wit and non-wisdom of these fallible (i.e., human) beings offers a fascinating reflection on those shaky internal compasses we call moral instincts.212-239-6200, 2st.comWE LIVE BY THE SEA at 59E59 Theaters (closes on May 6). A theater work devised by the company Patch of Blue and directed by Alex Howarth, this story of an imaginary dog and two teenage sisters (Alexandra Brain and Alexandra Simonet), one of whom is on the spectrum, finishes its run. Elisabeth Vincentelli praised the companys ability to create an expansive world out of seemingly little.212-279-4200, 59e59.org
