The Hebridean archipelago, which hugs Scotlands ragged west coast, comprises over 180 islands which extend out into the North Atlantic, forming the British Isles final frontier before Newfoundland. Divided into the Inner Hebrides, a coastal barrier of 79 islands, and the Outer Hebrides, a more far-flung cluster of over 100 islands and rocky skerries, of which only a fraction are inhabited, the area occupies a mythical place in Scottish culture. First settled in the Stone Age, the islands remain wild, heather-carpeted outposts of Celtic and Norse tradition, scattered with ancient croft fields, medieval castles and gray-stone fishing villages. The Callanish Stones, a cruciform arrangement of standing stones on the Isle of Lewis, predate the pyramids of Egypt.While several of the more remote islands  including the outermost archipelago, St. Kilda, a collection of windswept rocks a further 100 miles west of the Isle of Skye  are near impossible to visit by boat, it is surprisingly easy to skip between the more easterly islands thanks to a network of ferry routes operated by CalMac. Skye, which is connected to the mainland by way of the Skye Bridge  Inverness Airport is the nearest international hub  is the unofficial capital of the Hebrides growing food scene. To the north, the Isle of Lewis, the largest island of the Outer Hebrides, attracts visitors to its Harris Tweed textile mill, and the Isle of Harris, its smaller southern neighbor, is becoming known for its locally made gin infused with native botanicals. The Hebrides Islands, with their enchanting lunar landscapes, windswept white-sand beaches and wide open skies  which offer views of the Northern Lights  are home to the last true wilderness in Britain.StayMint CroftThis luxuriously rustic bed-and-breakfast occupies a pair of restored Hebridean crofters cottages on a six-acre organic farm on the Isle of Skye. In the cozy breakfast room, the propertys owners, Shaz and Ali Morton, serve organic porridge drizzled with Highland Perthshire honey, Inverawe Smokehouses peat-smoked mackerel pt on toast and eggs from the propertys own hens. The two guest suites, Blackhouse and Stonestore, retain the original buildings centuries-old exposed-stone walls, updated with floor-to-ceiling windows that provide views over Loch Snizort toward the islands of Harris and Lewis. From the main house, an old cliff path winds down to a pebbly beach, from where guests can spot white-tailed sea eagles, minke whales, seals and dolphins.Lews CastleSet within the woodlands of Stornoway on the Isle of Lewis, Lews Castle is a Gothic Revival relic, complete with flying buttresses and gargoyles, that was first built as a country house for the Victorian opium baron Sir James Matheson. Newly reopened after renovations completed in 2016, the property has been restored to its original grandeur and equipped with 23 minimalist guest rooms, spread between nine luxury apartments  where locally woven Harris Tweed cushions contrast with sleek midcentury furnishings. On the ground floor is the Museum nan Eilean, home to six of the famous Lewis Chessmen, a centuries-old set of 93 game pieces carved from walrus ivory.The Harbour InnAlmost one third of the residents of the Isle of Islay  the southernmost island of the Inner Hebrides  live in the town of Bowmore (population 863), so staying in one of the five whitewashed cottages or seven guest rooms at the towns Harbour Inn feels like a family affair. Rooms are comfortably modern, with old-world touches, including Bowmore Tweed textiles developed at the nearby Islay Woolen Mill, and views of the horseshoe-shaped Loch Indaal. But the inns true allure is its access to the Bowmore Distillery, home to the worlds oldest scotch maturation warehouse, the legendary No. 1 Vaults. Visitors can go behind-the-scenes in the companys cask room, which dates back to 1779, to taste 10- to 25-year-aged whiskies.EatThe Three ChimneysDuring its 33-year history, the Three Chimneys, on the Isle of Skye, has revolutionized traditional Scottish cuisine. Chef Scott Daviess slow food philosophy is embodied in the restaurants hyper-seasonal ingredients, which he sources from local fishermen and crofters. Much of the seafood featured on the menu  crab, lobsters and langoustines  comes from Dunvegan Harbour, less than a mile from the restaurant, and even the wild game is local: Davies serves Skye red deer, along with charcoal-roasted beetroot and ash-baked celeriac sourced from a nearby farm. Nextdoor to the restaurants intimate exposed-stone dining rooms are six guest rooms, which all look out over Loch Dunvegan.Loch Bay RestaurantOn Skyes northwest Waternish peninsula, in the old Norse fishing village of Stein, chef Michael Smith serves contemporary Scottish dishes with French flair at his cozy Michelin-starred Loch Bay Restaurant. Choose the five-course seafood menu to sample lobster and prawns  served with apple, sorrel and a potato scone  as well as locally sourced Sconser Scallops harvested from the plankton-rich waters of Loch Sligachan. And dont miss land-based dishes like the slow-braised short rib and chargrilled beef served with neeps, syboes  Scottish spring onions  and parsley relish.Kinloch LodgeBuilt in the 16th century as a hunting lodge for the Highland Clan Donald, Kinloch Lodge, on the Isle of Skye, sits at the edge of a native birch forest, on the shore of Loch na Dal. Decorated with MacDonald family portraits spanning 300 years, the hotels restaurant is a tribute to traditional Scottish ingredients, overseen by the Brazilian-Scottish chef Marcello Tully. Signature dishes include seared wild pigeon breast with Stornoway black pudding, beetroot and crme frache, and Black Isle lamb with cashew and black olive tapenade and pommes dauphinoises. Afternoon tea, served in one of the propertys three drawing rooms, stars Kinlochs famous scones, layered with jam and whipped vanilla cream.ShopThe Carloway MillHarris Tweed is arguably the most famous export of the Outer Hebrides, and though the handwoven cloth is named after the Isle of Harris, the only three working Harris Tweed mills in the world are on the adjoining Isle of Lewis. At Carloway Mill, the smallest of the three, weavers use a 70-year-old Hattersley loom to turn pure virgin wool into tweed, a craft passed down through generations of Scots. Workshop tours and weaving demonstrations are available, and visitors can shop for authentic Harris Tweed suiting, checked scarves and tartan bedspreads at the mills store.Shoreline StonewareOn North Uist in the Outer Hebrides, the ceramist Louise Cook sells organic sculptures and tableware inspired by the coastal surrounds of her studio and gallery, Shoreline Stoneware. After high tide, Cook collects driftwood and seashells  limpets, cowries and dog whelks  from the beaches of nearby lochs, and uses their natural textures to emboss clay bowls and vessels. Her rich natural glazes are made with rock sediment gathered from the fields of her familys croft.SeeIsle of Harris DistilleryOpened in 2015, the Isle of Harris Distillery is Harriss first legal whisky-producing operation. Billed as a social distillery, it was founded by a team of 10 Harris islanders and boasts five local distillers, who each trained from scratch to become the islands first generation of whisky makers. To curb demand while its single-malt whisky matured, the distillery began producing an award-winning Isle of Harris Gin. Go for the kelp-infused spirits, but dont miss the sugar kelp water, an aromatic addition to a gin and tonic.Taigh Chearsabhagh Museum & Arts CentrePerched on an outcrop overlooking the tidal bay of Lochmaddy, the Taigh Chearsabhagh Museum & Arts Centre occupies a former 18th-century inn and is the epicenter of the arts community on the two Uist islands in the Outer Hebrides. The museum features contemporary art, film and poetry by local artists, and hosts traditional music and literary festivals throughout the year. As part of its mission to preserve the islands regional culture, the museum also partners with a local university to provide courses in Gaelic.
