Good morning on this brilliant Tuesday, and welcome to May.Today you may retire your winter coat.With bright, sunny skies and temperatures in the mid-70s, and even more heat later this week, you can also feel free to throw on a few bold colors and bright pastels.Or not. This is New York, so no matter the weather, youre sure to look stunning in our citys unofficial uniform: head-to-toe black.Curious about New Yorkers obsession with a muted palette, we turned to Valerie Steele, the director of The Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology and the author of The Black Dress.Do New Yorkers actually wear more black?Yes, said Ms. Steele, but not everyone.Its only some New Yorkers who wear black, but its the kind of people popularly identified with this city  fashion people, artists and hipsters, Ms. Steele said. You dont need to be the majority, you just need to be a visible minority to become associated with a particular city style. At fashion shows, New Yorkers wear black much more often than their counterparts in Paris and Milan do, she said, which has also helped popularize the idea that people from our city wear black.When did wearing black become our thing?New Yorkers start to become associated with wearing black in the late 70s and early 80s, Ms. Steele said. Thats when you get a sort of perfect storm of different style tribes wearing black.Artists and cool kids downtown were wearing black for its edgy and sinister vibes, while uptown, Donna Karan was designing with black for its practical applications  the color is flattering, slimming and easy to mix and match.But one of the most important style tribes was the one associated with avant-garde art, said Ms. Steele, who adopted the all-black, baggy designs of the Japanese designers Yohji Yamamoto and Rei Kawakubo. People were at first mostly horrified by it, but then very rapidly, people in New York started wearing these all-black avant-garde Japanese fashions. It was like a secret Masonic handshake.Why is it we love black so much?People dress a certain way because they want to project a particular image of themselves, Ms. Steele said. Colors help us achieve that.Think about navy blue, which Ms. Steele says is authoritarian and preppy, or pink, which some see as girlie or queer. Black connotes power, elegance and eroticism, characteristics that many people  New Yorkers included  wish to identify with. It started out initially symbolizing downtown New Yorkers, and this kind of hip quality, she said. Everyone wanted to be cool and dangerous and hip looking.Plus, we look good in it.New York City is also a city of stone, Ms. Steele said, and black looks good in this environment. It wouldnt look the same in a sunny Los Angeles milieu.Heres what else is happening:In the News District courts are split over whether President Trumps campaign-trail statements are based on an animus toward Latinos that violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution. [New York Times] The retrial of Sheldon Silver, the former New York State Assembly speaker, on public corruption charges began in Federal District Court. [New York Times] Judith Leiber, known for her whimsical handbag creations, died at her home in Springs, N.Y., hours after her husband, Gerson Leiber, a painter and sculptor died. They were 97 and 96, respectively. A Long Island community mourns the loss of a house known for its historical significance. [New York Times] Airlines will be prohibited from sending planes to Kennedy Airport during winter storms unless they have received assurances that gates will be available on landing. [New York Times]Kew Gardens, Queens, is known as Crew Gardens because of its popularity with airline workers who like its location near both Kennedy and La Guardia Airports. [New York Times] A lawsuit filed by three Newark residents claims Mayor Ras Baraka misused city funds by having police escort the D.J. Funkmaster Flex to Mr. Barakas birthday. [CBS Philly] Cynthia Nixon has landed her first endorsement from a Democratic elected official, Brooklyn City Council member Carlos Menchaca. [New York Post] House flipping is diminishing the citys last remaining affordable housing stock, a new report revealed. [Curbed] Todays Metropolitan Diary: God Save the Q For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Coming Up Today Learn Tai Chi in Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan. 7:30 to 8:30 a.m. [Free] Food, drumming and a ribbon dance around a maypole are part of the May Day Beltaine celebration at Le Petit Versailles in the East Village. Noon to 6 p.m. [Free] Inside the Male Brain: Toxic Masculinity and #MeToo, a discussion among psychology and sociology professors, at the Brooklyn Historical Society in Brooklyn Heights. 6:30 p.m. [$5] A screening of the documentary One Track Mind: Drawing the New York Subway, about a man who sketches the subway system, at the New York Transit Museum in Downtown Brooklyn. 6:30 p.m. [$10] Vote for your favorite new play at the New Short Play Festival, a showcase of 10-minute plays, at the American Theater of Actors in Midtown Manhattan. 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. [$20] Mets host Braves, 7:10 p.m. (SNY). Yankees at Astros, 8:10 p.m. (YES). Alternate-side parking remains in effect until May 10. For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.And Finally...For those coming down with a case of spring fever, we know a great place to convalesce: the gently swaying hammocks on Governors Island, now open for the season.And during the islands inaugural week, theres lot more to explore: Visit the artwork Rock, Mosquito and Hummingbird, which tells the story of the prehistory of Governors Island. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Beginning this weekend, play with light, make your own hologram and visit an exhibit of works by artists who use light as their medium, at the HoloCenter. Noon to 5 p.m. Explore Rare AIR, an experimental neon sculpture gallery. Weekends, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Children can get creative  writing songs, performing dances or solving mysteries  at the Dysfunctional Collective. Weekends, noon to 5 p.m. Or join a bird walk and get to know the wildlife on the island. 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (No tours on Mondays and Tuesdays.)All ferries to the island are free through Sunday. You can see the full schedule here.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.
