DANCING BEARS True Stories of People Nostalgic for Life Under Tyranny By Witold Szablowski Translated by Antonia Lloyd-Jones. Illustrated. 233 pp. Penguin. Paper, $16.My advance review copy of Dancing Bears came with a sticker bearing the new subtitle plastered over the original. True Stories of People Nostalgic for Life Under Tyranny, the sticker read. Underneath, I could just about make out the previous version: True Stories of People Held Captive to Old Ways of Life in Newly Free Societies.The revision made me wonder: Why did the author or publisher decide to make the change? Why discard the phrase newly free societies? It often refers to countries that were once communist and are thought to be in transition to democratic capitalism. Does the elision imply that the concept is redundant? Then there is the change from held captive, which connotes a power imposed from the outside, to nostalgic for, which suggests a desire generated from within. But old ways of life sounds immeasurably softer than tyranny. So one is held captive by comforting things, and yearns for terrible ones? Or are these two states simply alternate versions of each other?Although I assume the subtitle issue has been resolved, the double-layered sticker situation nicely reflects the structure of this utterly original book, split into two parts. In the first, Witold Szablowski, a Polish journalist frequently compared to the late, more pre-eminent Pole, the writer Ryszard Kapuscinski, describes how after the fall of communism, dancing bears kept in captivity by the Roma people in Bulgaria were taken away by well-meaning if righteous animal-rights NGOs and put into special reservations that simulate the wild.ImageThis narrative would have made for a lovely little book in its own right. Szablowski makes you feel for the Roma families who are losing their livelihood (they earned money by making the bears dance and act out comedy sketches as street entertainment), yet he never flinches from detailing the cruel conditions these same people imposed on the animals. A bears most sensitive body part is its nose, and their owners inserted metal rings through them so they could force the bears to dance with little tugs, torturing them physically while breaking their will by giving them alcohol to drink. Szablowski divides the bears journey to semi-freedom, or more civilized captivity, into nine chapter headings, from the Love the Roma claim to feel for their prisoners, through the bears rediscovery of their Instincts. One great victory occurs when the bears learn Hibernation, after never having done so before. But the transition is far from perfect: Because the bears would not be able to look after cubs, they are neutered. Unable to reproduce, with no obvious future, they start to repeat behaviors they were forced to perform before being rescued. To the horror of the animal-rights community, the liberated bears rise up on their hind legs and dance.In the second half of his book, Szablowski repeats the same nine chapter headings, but this time he describes daily life in countries from the former Soviet bloc to Cuba at various stages between communism and democracy. At the start of every chapter, Szablowski inserts a quote from the corresponding chapter about the bears. The chapter on Estonia quotes the chapter from Part 1 on instincts, recalling the testimony of zoology experts who bring the bears out of captivity: We sit in our observatory and watch how they behave, and we work it out  how much aggression we can allow them, whether theyve already crossed the boundary or whether we can still give them a while to cool down. What ensues is an account of the fraught, often near-violent, relationship between ethnic Estonians and the ethnic Russian minority within that country.The book offers not so much a single, continuous narrative as it does two narratives placed opposite each other, bouncing meanings back and forth. As I read the country chapters I was always flicking back to the related sections about the bears. Sometimes the connections come relatively easily, as with instinct and Estonia. Other times they are less obvious: Like some works of conceptual art, they seemed designed to tease and pleasantly infuriate. The Hibernation chapter in Part 2 is about a Polish village where the locals dress up like Tolkien characters to earn a pittance from visiting tourists. Is this a case of a passive populace honing its entrepreneurial instincts? Or, rather, the pseudo-activity of a free-market model, which keeps people soporific?In the final chapter, I assumed Szablowski would take us to contemporary Hungary or Poland, countries deemed to have successfully completed the shift from the Warsaw Pact to the European Union, but where authoritarian tendencies are now prevalent. Instead, he pivots to Greece, which was governed by a right-wing dictatorship until 1974. During mass anti-E.U. protests in Athens, the language of transition is reversed: The protesters see the E.U. as the prison and want to sweep capitalism away. Are they yearning for the certitudes of tyranny? Still instinctively fighting a long-gone authoritarianism? Or is so-called capitalism being revealed as a false freedom?Throughout Dancing Bears, Szablowski challenges not only the conventions of linear storytelling, but also the linear logic of a simple political progression from unfree to free. But he doesnt merely replace one imposed narrative with another. Instead, he provokes a far-reaching and unresolved conversation about what freedom might really mean. A reader yearning for an all-explaining style of storytelling will be frustrated. Maybe that, too, is a kind of nostalgia for tyranny.
