Our guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BOOGIE DOWN AT THE BRONX ZOO (through June 3). Plenty of scratching occurs at wildlife parks  consider all those species with claws  but at the Bronx Zoo these days, some of it has more to do with creative sound than with creature habits. For the next few weekends, musicians, break dancers and artists will be appearing there in a grand salute to the boroughs prominence as a cradle of cutting-edge culture. Produced with the organization Windows of Hip Hop, Boogie Down at the Bronx Zoo teaches young people how to scratch records, construct eight-meter rhymes and appreciate groundbreaking acts like the Sugar Hill Gang, who will perform this Sunday. But whats most intriguing is the festivals embrace of the zoos residents. The hip-hop pioneers Grandmaster Melle Mel and Grandmaster Caz have written Animals and MCs, a theme song incorporating wildlife noises, and theyll encourage visitors to make zoo-inspired raps. And street artists  this weekend its the group Tats Cru  will contribute to works begun by animals that were given nontoxic paints to play with. Think of it as the new fauvism.718-367-1010, bronxzoo.comCHILDRENS DAY FESTIVAL: KODOMO NO HI at Japan Society (May 6, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.). The Japanese holiday now known as Childrens Day once celebrated only boys. Thats no longer true, and you can expect lots of girl power when Japan Society honors this occasion. The impressive performers will include Kyo Kasumi, a female sword-fighting expert who will lead samurai kids action classes in the afternoon, and Candy 5, who creates amezaiku, or taffy sculpture, and bills herself as the first female practitioner in 300 years. The event will also feature three actresses from the company Crossing Jamaica Avenue, who will present Momotaro and You, a theater piece that invites audience members to help its hero, Peach Boy, on his quest.212-715-1258, japansociety.orgFREE COMIC BOOK DAY WEEKEND at the Childrens Museum of Manhattan (May 5-6 at various times). The ability to read may not be a superpower, but it can feel that way to small children. And every year, publishers like DC and Marvel encourage literacy through the free distribution of some of their titles on Free Comic Book Day, the first Saturday in May. This museum will give out comics on Saturday (while supplies last), and all weekend it will teach young visitors about the art form. The programs include a drawing and collaging workshop (on Saturday only), a movement-and-story time and a superhero training camp with obstacle courses. Two events that explore the culture of Japanese comics have limited space and require sign-up on site: a workshop on designing the comic strips known as manga and, on Saturday only, sessions with the illustrator Aya Kakeda in which participants will make their own kawaii, or cutesy, characters.212-721-1223, cmom.orgJACKSON GALAXYS CAT CAMP at Penn Plaza (May 5-6, 10 a.m.-6:30 p.m.). The cat behaviorist Jackson Galaxy is probably best known for his work on the television series My Cat From Hell. Here, however, he will preside over what will surely seem like cat heaven to young pet lovers and their families. This two-day fair will offer events such as Ask the Cat Expert and Ask the Vet on Saturday, and Peaceable Kingdom, a talk that provides advice for multicat households, on Sunday. The fun will also include health and rescue presentations and meet-and-greets with cat-world celebrities both feline (Lil Bub) and human (Hannah Shaw, known as the Kitten Lady, and Mr. Galaxy), though those events require separate tickets. But no special admission is necessary for what may be the biggest draw: a cat adoption area with 300 prospective pets.catcampnyc.comRAIN: A TRIBUTE TO THE BEATLES at the Hulu Theater, Madison Square Garden (through May 6). No matter how the musical tastes of parents and children diverge, the songs of the Beatles often bridge that divide. And what better way to come together than to introduce young listeners to that classic canon? The members of the band Rain imitate both the sound and the look of the Fab Four in their heyday. (On this tour, the musician portraying Paul McCartney even plays bass left-handed.) At these shows, which honor the 50th anniversary of the release of Sgt. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band, they will perform that album in its entirety, as well as hits like I Want to Hold Your Hand, A Hard Days Night and Hey Jude. 866-858-0008, msg.comSTUDIO SUNDAY at the Museum of Arts and Design (May 6, 10 a.m.-1 p.m.). Children dont need to be afraid of monsters hiding under the bed  or in museum workshops, either. The creatures at this program will welcome little visitors (the recommended age is 6 or older), who will also get involved in the monster-making process. The artist Lexy Ho-Tai, the inventor of Kookerville, a multidisciplinary project, will help participants assemble more of its gangly residents: big, whimsical, wearable puppets constructed from yarn, rags and found objects. (She invites families to contribute junk from home.) In addition to building the friendly Kookers, little guests can attend MADreads, the museums story hour, at 10:30 a.m., which features more lovable monsters with a reading of Maurice Sendaks Where the Wild Things Are.212-299-7777, madmuseum.orgTHALIA KIDS BOOK CLUB: WENDY MASS AND REBECCA STEAD at Symphony Space (May 6, 1 p.m.). Fantastical fictional beings like Peter Pan and E.T. have long visited the ordinary world, usually encountering more understanding from children than from adults. Now meet Bob, a small greenish creature who wears a chicken suit and has befriended Livy, a 10-year-old staying at her grandmothers house in Australia. Bob, who needs to find his way home  he just cant recall where it is  is the title character of a new novel by Ms. Mass and Ms. Stead, best-selling authors and first-time collaborators. They will appear at this presentation, which, like all Thalia Kids Book Club events, will include a discussion, a reading, a book signing and a brief creative writing exercise for young readers.212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org
