HeadlinerARATA The chef Matthew Kenneys stock-in-trade is vegan cooking, though he prefers the term plant based. His latest restaurant, his 14th globally and fifth in New York, looks to Japan. It sits next door to the vegan pizzeria Double Zero, and the Mexican place Bar Verde, both of which list him as a partner. Arata, which has sleek, minimalist dcor, will serve kimchi pancakes; several salads; rice cakes with long beans and sugar snap peas; tempura mushroom hand rolls; and steamed buns with mushrooms, eggplant and other fillings tucked inside. Assorted ramen and udon bowls will brim with ingredients like chickpeas, smoked tofu, Sichuan tempeh sausage and baby bok choy. A cacao matcha tart is one of the desserts. The bar will mix inventive cocktails that feature vegetables, as well as classic drinks. Its not surprising that all this comes with a wellness message. (Opens Friday): 67 Second Avenue (East Fourth Street), 212-658-1948, matthewkenneycuisine.com.OpeningYAMADA CHIKARA NEW YORK Youll need a scorecard for this. Chikara Yamada, who owns the restaurant Yamada Chikara in Tokyo, is opening his first American outpost, Yamada Chikara New York. Mr. Yamada worked at El Bulli, in Spain, so molecular gastronomy and international flavors inform his Japanese food. A parade of fried skewers called kushiage are the focus of the 10- to 12-course omakase ($180), for which the finale is a matcha tea ceremony. (Wednesday): 249 East 49th Street, 646-952-0364, yamadachikara-ny.com.PRIMOS This suave Art Deco bar was installed in the Frederick Hotel, a vintage property that was the Cosmopolitan. Martinis and cocktails that involve absinthe, vodka and coffee are a specialty: 129 Chambers Street, 917-512-3432, primostribeca.com.CHICHA CAFETIN AND COCKTAILS Vanessa Palazio and Adam Schneider, the couple who owned Little Muenster, drew from Ms. Palazios Nicaraguan background for this new spot, which merges street food like quesillos (corn tortillas with cheese and toppings) and Nicaraguan guacamole with hard-cooked egg. Also on the menu are churrasco steak, salpicon rillettes made with shredded short rib, and black clams poached in coconut milk. The bar, run by their partner Marshall Altier, relies on iterations of rum. Nathan Meshberg, who owns the hot sauce company Fort Greene Farms, is another partner. The colorful 60-seat restaurant and bar is in a repurposed warehouse space (Wednesday)): 198 Randolph Street (Gardner Avenue), Bushwick, Brooklyn, chichanyc.com.MACCHINA At this Italian restaurant in a modern industrial space, ricotta is stuffed in pizza crusts, agnolotti may be made with carrot, and a Stromboli measures two feet. It is not related to the Upper West Side restaurant of the same name that recently closed: 365 Third Avenue (26th Street).EMP SUMMER HOUSE The Hamptons branch of Eleven Madison Park will return this summer, reopening on May 25. Lobster tempura, bouillabaisse and milk and honey ice cream are back on the menu. American Express card holders can make reservations starting today at empsummerhouse.com, for the indoor dining room and the covered patio. Picnic tables in the backyard are for walk-ins: 341 Pantigo Road (Montauk Highway), East Hampton, N.Y.THE SPRINGS A colorful throwback to the 1950s resort culture of Palm Springs, Calif., is setting up shop in Brooklyn. Sarah Boisjoli, formerly at Estela and Caf Altro Paradiso, is devising cocktails, including slushies, inspired by the desert oasis  like the Lawn Flamingo combining mezcal, Campari, pineapple and passion fruit. Casual comfort food like grilled cheese sandwiches, sliders, burgers, quesadillas and avocado toast will be dispensed from a retro truck parked at the entrance to the lounges sprawling indoor-outdoor patio. (Thursday): 224 Franklin Street (Green Street), Greenpoint, Brooklyn, 347-227-7114, thespringsbklyn.com.CHINESE CLUB NEW YORK Salil and Stacey Mehta, who own the Chinese Club in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, are presenting their take on the food cooked in India by Chinese immigrants, like Ms. Mehtas family. On the menu at this intimate Curry Hill spot youll find Grandmas crispy steamed won tons, Bengali fish in a coconut milk curry, and Manchow soup with tofu, vegetables and crispy noodles. (Monday): 102 Lexington Avenue (27th Street), thechineseclubnyc.com.ClosedBISTRO CHAT NOIR This bright Upper East Side townhouse restaurant is shuttering after more than a decade. It closed after a gas leak in the building three and a half months ago, but expenses for repairs and subsequent financial losses derailed the owner Suzanne Latapies plans to reopen.MARKT This 20-year-old Belgian brasserie was a meatpacking district pioneer before moving to Chelsea.Chef on the MoveMICHAEL W. TWITTY, whose The Cooking Gene, was named book of the year by the James Beard Foundation last week, will be the first chef to participate in a new series at the Brownsville Community Culinary Center, in Brooklyn, which offers programs on nutrition education and professional culinary training, and runs a restaurant. On May 9, Mr. Twitty will prepare a dinner ($75) open to the public; guests will receive a copy of his book. Tickets are on sale: 69 Belmont Ave. (Watkins Street).
