The case was tabloid fodder, and news of it filled books and hours of television. The murder of a 15-year-old girl in a genteel Connecticut suburb went years without arrests, only to turn into a drawn-out legal battle that transfixed much of the nation with its connections to the Kennedy family, questions about the influence of wealth and privilege, and twist after twist.The latest turn, and quite possibly the last, came on Friday, when the Connecticut Supreme Court vacated the conviction of Michael C. Skakel, who had been found guilty of killing the girl, Martha Moxley, with a golf club in 1975. The decision was, in itself, another surprising development, reversing a ruling by the same court not even two years ago.Mr. Skakel, a Kennedy nephew, had been convicted in 2002 of killing Ms. Moxley, who lived in the same neighborhood in Greenwich. He was found guilty after a three-week trial that brought to light details including his drinking and drug use. But as his legal team waged an appeal in recent years, they argued that he had been failed repeatedly by his trial lawyer.Prosecutors will now have to decide whether they will try the case again. On Friday, they said they were reviewing the decision, but they would face significant obstacles, such as witnesses who are dead and hazy memories more than four decades after the crime. As it was, it took 25 years for Mr. Skakel to be charged after an investigation that had long been stalled for lack of physical evidence.[Read More: How the Skakel-Moxley Case Unfolded Over Four Decades]In Fridays majority opinion, Justice Richard N. Palmer cited the shortcomings of Mr. Skakels trial lawyer, noting that the conviction was founded on a case devoid of any forensic evidence or eyewitness testimony linking the petitioner to the crime.But in a lacerating dissent, Justice Carmen E. Espinosa argued that more than anything else, Mr. Skakel had benefited from his wealth and prominent connections. She wrote that other convicted criminals would undoubtedly be thrilled to receive such special treatment.Unfortunately for them, the vast majority do not share the petitioners financial resources, social standing, ethnicity or connections to a political dynasty, Justice Espinosa wrote. Nor do their cases share the same glam and celebrity factor as this cause clbre.Mr. Skakel, who was 15 at the time of the killing, was not arrested until he was in his late 30s. He was sentenced to 20 years to life for the murder. Mr. Skakel was released in 2013, after spending more than a decade in prison. A judge had vacated the original sentence, finding that Mr. Skakels trial lawyer had not provided effective representation.Then, in 2016, the Supreme Court reinstated the conviction, disagreeing with that judges finding. The high court, acting on a request from the defense, decided to review its own decision. In the interim, the makeup of the court changed with the retirement of the justice who wrote the majority opinion in the last ruling.Fridays ruling was a reminder of how, after more than 40 years, the enduring legal struggle had left the Moxleys and the Skakels without any solid resolution. The two families had lived in the same gated community on the Connecticut coast. The morning after Ms. Moxley did not return home, Mr. Skakel answered the door when Ms. Moxleys mother knocked, searching for her daughter.John Moxley, Martha Moxleys older brother, called the decision disappointing. Dorthy Moxley, the victims mother, said in a brief telephone interview on Friday that she continues to believe that Mr. Skakel killed her daughter. No question about it, she said.What do I want to say? Ms. Moxley said. Well, I am surprised and not particularly happy about this. But well handle and do what we have to do.Mr. Skakels lawyers had argued that his lawyer during the trial, Mickey Sherman, failed to investigate a witness who, they say, could have confirmed that Mr. Skakel was nowhere close to the Moxley familys home at the time of the murder. They also said that his older brother, Thomas Skakel, was the likely culprit.The Supreme Court did the right thing, Michael A. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Skakels lawyer, said in a statement, adding that his client had been unjustly imprisoned for more than 11 years. To be absolutely clear, he said, Michael Skakel is innocent of this crime.Thomas Skakel did not respond to requests for comment.Ms. Moxley, a popular teenager, was killed on Oct. 30, 1975, her body found under a pine tree on her familys estate. She had been struck with a steel golf club with enough force to break the club, with the head and part of the shaft ending up more than 100 feet away. Another piece of the shaft was used to stab her through the neck.The grisly crime led to years of police investigation, Hollywood treatments and books that capitalized on the cases link to the Kennedy family  Mr. Skakels aunt is Ethel Kennedy, the widow of Robert F. Kennedy.After Mr. Skakels arrest 25 years later, prosecutors faced major hurdles as they brought the case to trial, which was centered largely on circumstantial evidence. The case raised a host of legal issues. He was initially charged as a juvenile, because of his age at the time of the murder, and had he been convicted in juvenile court, he would have faced little jail time. Beyond that, important witnesses died before the trial, and prosecutors did not have direct physical evidence linking Mr. Skakel to the crime.Investigators had recovered the golf club used in the attack, a 6-iron from a set that had belonged to Mr. Skakels mother. But investigators had not found fingerprints or blood connecting it to a perpetrator. Mr. Skakel also claimed to have an alibi: watching Monty Pythons Flying Circus on television at a cousins home miles from the murder scene.After Mr. Skakels conviction, several jurors said that they had been convinced of his guilt by his own incriminating words and years of erratic behavior. They said that Mr. Skakel had changed his account of where he was during the killing, and they believed relatives and friends could have been covering up for him. The jury relied on a taped conversation between Mr. Skakel and the ghostwriter of his planned autobiography in which Mr. Skakel placed himself near the murder scene.With Mr. Skakel facing a life sentence, his aunt sent the judge a handwritten letter from Hyannis Port, Mass., describing a tumultuous childhood and asking for leniency. She praised Mr. Skakel for his mental toughness, fortitude, courage and tenacity in overcoming his difficult upbringing and alcohol addiction, and for his sweetness, kindness, good cheer and love of life. The letter was signed, Out of the depths, but with hope, Ethel Kennedy.One of Mr. Skakels most vigorous defenders has been his cousin, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a former prosecutor and environmental lawyer who, in a book published two years ago, explored what he said was a botched police investigation and prosecutorial misbehavior and offered alternative theories about who killed Ms. Moxley. I think its a strong validation, Mr. Kennedy said on Friday, and Im very happy for Michael.
