Our guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.EPHRAT ASHERIE DANCE at the Guggenheim Museum (May 6, 7:30 p.m.). Ms. Asherie offers a preview of her forthcoming Odeon as part of the museums Works and Process performing arts series. The work  scheduled to have its premiere at the Jacobs Pillow Dance Festival in June  is a collaboration between the choreographer and her brother Ehud Asherie, a pianist and the productions musical director. In it, the performers examine how dances from the African diaspora, including breaking, hip-hop, house and vogue, meld with the music of the Brazilian composer Ernesto Nazareth. The program also features Ms. Asherie in a discussion of her work with the Pillows director, Pamela Tatge.212-423-3575, worksandprocess.orgTHE BODY IN ACTION: LIZ GERRING WITH SHANNON GILLEN AND ABBY ZBIKOWSKI at the 92nd Street Y (May 4, noon). The Fridays at Noon series has invited Ms. Gerring to serve as a guest curator, and as such, the choreographer has organized an intimate afternoon of dance and conversation spotlighting the work of Ms. Gillen, Ms. Zbikowski and herself. Ms. Gerring presents her group in rarely seen duets, while Ms. Gillen, the director of the troupe Vim Vigor Dance Company, presents a preview of a new work. Finally, Ms. Zbikowski offers duets that span her career. After the performance, Ms. Gerring leads a discussion with the artists.212-415-5500, 92y.orgDENDY/DONOVAN at New York Live Arts (May 10-12, 7:30 p.m.). The American Dance Festival presents Elvis Everywhere, a collaboration between the choreographer Mark Dendy and the director and designer Stephen Donovan. Inspired by an interview that Donald Rumsfeld gave about an encounter in Las Vegas with Elvis Presley, the production explores our celebrity-obsessed society and illustrates how Presley is a metaphor for our current political climate. The score includes music by Presley, Little Richard, Big Mama Thornton and Arthur Crudup, along with interviews with Presley and Mr. Rumsfeld.212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.orgLA MAMA MOVES! DANCE FESTIVAL at the Ellen Stewart Theater and the Downstairs Theater and Lounge as well as other event spaces (May 10-June 3). This festival, now in its 13th season, shines its spotlight on choreographers exploring issues around race, gender, religion and exclusion. Among the artists are NiJa Whitson, who continues to excavate the idea of blackness in The Unarrival Experiments #4 (a work in progress), and Adham Hafez, who looks at the body and politics in To Catch a Terrorist. The series of performances, film screenings and symposiums, programmed by Nicky Paraiso, ends on a festive note with an evening masterminded by the collective Aunts in which the audience is invited to roam as dance emerges out of nowhere.212-352-3101, lamama.orgLIMN DANCE COMPANY at the Joyce Theater (May 8-9, 7:30 p.m., through May 13). The company returns to the Joyce with a revival of Jos Limns Missa Brevis, an emotionally stirring work from 1958 set to Zoltn Kodlys Missa Brevis in Tempore Belli. Joining the group are the guest dancers Carolina Avendano and Terry Springer, of Venezuelas Coreoarte, along with Kristen Foote and Julian Nichols. The program also includes Limns The Unsung, performed by an all-male cast; The Body Is a House Without Walls, for an all-female cast by the troupes artistic director, Colin Connor; and three short works by the choreographers Rosie Herrera, Adam Barruch and Yin Yue.212-242-0800, joyce.orgMELANIE MAAR at the future site of the Chocolate Factory (May 10, 7:30 p.m., through May 14). Ms. Maar, a creator of sensitive and poetic dance works, presents a free in-progress performance of her latest at the Chocolate Factorys new facility in Queens. For the all-female trio, Being in Concrete Light, Ms. Maar is joined by Anas Maviel and Lindsay Packer in an experiment to generate a piece that is inspired by the theaters future  and currently unrenovated  home. The presentation is part of Line Death Dance, a residency project celebrating the unknowns of the creative process. Its also a chance to see the Chocolate Factorys new digs.chocolatefactorytheater.orgNEW YORK CITY BALLET at the David H. Koch Theater (through June 3). This week, City Ballet parts the curtain on its anticipated Robbins 100, a festival celebrating the work of Jerome Robbins, which continues on Friday with a program featuring Fancy Free, Dybbuk and West Side Story Suite. The spring season includes 19 of Robbinss works, as well as the new Justin Peck ballet set to music by Leonard Bernstein and a premiere by the choreographer and director Warren Carlyle. Exploring Robbinss unparalleled Broadway career, Mr. Carlyles piece will showcase 30 dancers in selections from eight musicals, including Peter Pan (1954), Funny Girl (1964) and Fiddler on the Roof (1964).212-496-0600, nycballet.com ANNE PLAMONDON at New York Live Arts (May 8, 7 p.m.). Ms. Plamondon made her choreographic debut in 2012 with a risky solo, The Same Eyes as Yours. Now, the American Dance Festival introduces the work to New York audiences. In it, the dancer  in collaboration with the actress, author and director Marie Brassard  explores the theme of mental illness and strives to expose what causes suffering in the body and in the soul.212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.orgSOAKING WET at the West End Theater (May 10-12, 7 and 8:30 p.m., through May 13). This dance series, curated by David Parker and Jeff Kazin, hosts the choreographer Vicky Shick (May 10-12, 7 p.m.) and Women in Motion, a shared program featuring Rebecca Lazier, Garnet Henderson, Joya Powell and Zo Aqua, a violinist collaborating with Ms. Powell (May 10-12, 8:30 p.m., and May 13, 2 p.m.). The highlight is the always mesmerizing Ms. Shick, who unveils the new Wash/A Variety Show, in which she presents choreographed mini portraits of several fine dancers: Donna Costello, Meg Harper, Jennifer Lafferty, Jon Kinzel, Omagbitse Omagbemi, Gabrielle Revlock and Marilyn Maywald Yahel. Wash will include a set piece by the Swiss artist Seline Baumgartner and a film by the photographer Anjola Toro.800-838-3006, thebanggroup.com/wet.phpMEG STUART AND DAMAGED GOODS at N.Y.U. Skirball (May 4-5, 7:30 p.m.). For the United States premiere of Until Our Hearts Stop, Ms. Stuart  a much-admired American choreographer who has long been based in Berlin and Brussels  returns to New York with a work for six performers and a three-piece onstage jazz band. Here, the dancers and musicians, on bass, piano and drums, explore an intimate space of desire and illusion that is heightened by their proximity. This performance contains nudity and is recommended for those 18 and older.212-998-4941, nyuskirball.org
