Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.THE CHELSEA GIRLS EXPLODED at the Museum of Modern Art (May 4-13). Take that, streaming video: Andy Warhols The Chelsea Girls (1966), almost certainly the apex of the artists work in film, makes projection an integral part of the moviegoing experience. The film is traditionally run from two 16-millimeter projectors operating simultaneously, with the sound switching between them and the images appearing side by side. MoMA is screening the movie several times: digitally (which may defeat the purpose, on Friday and May 13), in the regularly presented 16-millimeter version (on Sunday) and  by far the most unusual offering  in a 16-millimeter presentation (on Saturday) that replicates what was shown at the films world premiere, when the movie was two reels longer. Partly designed to showcase the digital preservation of Warhols films, this series also includes other titles by the filmmaker that complement The Chelsea Girls.212-708-9400, moma.orgA DIFFERENT PICTURE: WOMEN FILMMAKERS IN THE NEW HOLLYWOOD ERA, 1967-1980 at BAM Rose Cinemas (through May 20). Continuing a streak of retrospectives designed to expand conventional notions of film history, BAM offers this series to complicate the idea that the New Hollywood of the 1970s was, to paraphrase the author Peter Biskind, a time of easy riders and raging bulls  male directors given free rein in the studio system. The highlights include two superb films by Elaine May, A New Leaf (showing on Friday and Saturday) and Mikey and Nicky (on May 13); exploitation films by Stephanie Rothman (The Student Nurses and Terminal Island, both showing on May 12); and films by Joan Micklin Silver, whose immigrant drama Hester Street screens on Sunday with The Frontier Experience, a short by Barbara Loden (Wanda).718-636-4100, bam.orgEDWARD II at IFC Center (May 4-10). Part of the canon of New Queer Cinema, the British filmmaker Derek Jarmans adaptation of Christopher Marlowes play, starring Steven Waddington as the king and Andrew Tiernan as his lover, sought to give the Elizabethan text a modern resonance, drawing attention to contemporary homophobia and staging the play with a surfeit of sexual and violent imagery. Where the Marlowe play is a dog-eat-dog political allegory without heroes, the movie is a tract against the oppression of homosexuals through the ages, filmed by a director who is himself openly gay and living with AIDS, Stephen Holden wrote in a review for The New York Times in 1992. Mr. Jarman died in 1994.212-924-7771, ifccenter.comPANORAMA EUROPE at the Museum of the Moving Image and Bohemian National Hall (May 4-31). This annual series of mostly contemporary European cinema opens on Friday with The End of Fear, a documentary that examines the 1986 slashing of a Barnett Newman painting in Amsterdam and delves into the thorny questions posed by the restoration that followed. The lineup also includes a revival of Case for the New Hangman (on Saturday and May 31), a Czechoslovak movie that was fostered by the liberalization movement of the Prague Spring and was banned by the Communist government. 718-784-0077, movingimage.usSARA DRIVERS BOOM FOR REAL: THE ANNOTATED EDITION at Anthology Film Archives (May 4-29). As a filmmaker, Ms. Driver took part in the same downtown indie scene as the artist Jean-Michel Basquiat, the subject of her new documentary, Boom for Real (opening on May 11). To give a fuller sense of the inspirational crosscurrents flowing at the time, Anthologys retrospective includes films that feature Mr. Basquiat (like Downtown 81, screening on Friday) and movies that were made at that time and place (like Jim Jarmuschs debut feature, Permanent Vacation, showing on Saturday and Wednesday). As a bonus, artists appearing at or otherwise taking part in the series have selected some personal favorites, not necessarily related to the subject at hand. Ms. Driver, for instance, has picked Jacques Rivettes playful Le Pont du Nord (on May 17 and 29) and The Man Who Fell to Earth (also on May 17 and 29), starring David Bowie at his most otherworldly.212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org
