Richard Pryor may have saved National Lampoons Animal House.In 1978, Universals film division president, Ned Tanen, was in a rage about the not-yet-released Kennedy-era comedy. He was particularly livid over a scene in which white fraternity brothers and their sorority dates feel threatened by a roadhouse full of African-Americans. Ned said, You have to cut the whole black bar scene. There will be riots across America, the director John Landis recalled in a recent interview.A young Universal executive championed the film and screened it for the legendary comedian. He sent Ned a note on paper that said at the top, From the desk of Richard Pryor, and he wrote: Ned, Animal House is [expletive] funny, and white people are crazy, Mr. Landis remembered with a laugh. It was like a papal blessing.Animal House, which was made for $2.1 million, went on to gross $141.6 million domestically after its release on July 28, 1978. Nearly 40 years later, we caught up with many of the cast members including Kevin Bacon (who made his film debut in the comedy) and Donald Sutherland, along with Mr. Landis and the producer Ivan Reitman to tell the back story of the quintessential summer comedy.They recalled the films breakout star, John Belushi, who died of a drug overdose in 1982 at 33, as well as a real food fight and an on-campus melee.The script,  by Douglas Kenney, Chris Miller and Harold Ramis, aimed to capture the  rude, subversive humor of the magazine, but the story  about the unruly fraternity Delta House at fictional Faber College  left Hollywoods establishment cold.JOHN LANDIS They offered it to John Schlesinger [Midnight Cowboy], Alan J. Pakula [All the Presidents Men], Mike Nichols [The Graduate], George Roy Hill [The Sting]  the most unlikely directors  and they all threw it back. It shows you just how low-priority the movie was that they gave it to me, a 27-year-old with long hair who had made Schlock and The Kentucky Fried Movie.BRUCE McGILL (the biker Delta, D-Day) The first time I read the script, I was in the unemployment office on 90th and Broadway in Manhattan, which is not the cheeriest place. I couldnt believe it. I was like, Wow, Universals going to make this? They were very conservative at the time.PETER RIEGERT (Boon, the romantic lead) I was living with my girlfriend, Bette Midler, in New York City when I read the script, and I fell out of bed laughing. She loved how much I was loving it.Although Mr. Ramis had written the role of Boon for himself, Mr. Landis refused to cast him.LANDIS Harold was brilliant, but he wasnt really an actor  he had one performance. He never forgave me.KAREN ALLEN (Katy, Boons girlfriend) Harold was really sad about that. But he became a wonderful director.Mr. Reitman and fellow producer Matty Simmons wanted to turn the film into a showcase for the stars of  televisions relatively new smash Saturday Night Live, but Mr. Landis had other ideas.LANDIS The part of [the Delta lady-killer] Otter was written for Chevy Chase, D-Day was for Dan Aykroyd, and Bluto was for Belushi. I wanted John and Danny, but not Chevy, because I didnt want the audience to think of it as an S.N.L. movie. I had lunch with Chevy, and he was so full of himself  he lit this big cigar, and he was on his worst behavior. I said, I know youre being offered Foul Play, too, but you would have to carry that movie with Goldie Hawn. Animal House is an ensemble, like S.N.L. He took Foul Play, and I was delighted.CHEVY CHASE John Landis is full of [expletive], as he usually is. He had nothing to do with my decision. I did Foul Play because I wanted to work with Goldie. The S.N.L. producer Lorne Michaels wouldnt let Mr. Aykroyd do the movie. He did give Belushi permission, but the actor had to work around the television shows production schedule, flying back and forth between New York City and the movies Eugene, Ore., set.JAMES WIDDOES (the strait-laced Delta, Hoover) Belushi was on our set Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and hed talk about the ideas he had for Saturday Night Live. Hed fly back to New York City on Wednesday night, and wed watch S.N.L. and see all the skits hed talked about.McGILL People always ask, How was John? and its so thinly veiled  they mean, Was he doing drugs? I always say, Honestly, he was tired. He had two speeds: full-out and asleep.LANDIS John was a lovely, sweet, sensitive, charming, delightful guy, and he was a drug addict. But on Animal House, he was completely clean. When we made The Blues Brothers a year later, his addiction to cocaine had gotten worse, and he would drink, so it was bad. We had to take the door off his hotel room to get him out.KEVIN BACON I found John to be extremely warm and funny. In fact, I would run into him [in the Village] sometimes after we did the movie, and he was always a superfriendly and generous guy. He was cool. I really liked John.To create a bond among the Deltas, Mr. Landis brought them on location a week early in October 1977. They went to a fraternity party on the University of Oregon campus and got into a melee.RIEGERT You could tell how much the brothers didnt want us there. We were like wasps in a bumblebees nest.WIDDOES I started the fight when I knocked a cup of beer into one of the brothers faces. Its not my proudest moment.TIM MATHESON (Otter) I saw the front line of the football team coming at me and thought, Im a dead man. I looked at McGill and said, Lets run! They chased us down. It was not pretty.ALLEN Bruce got a horrific black eye. I was screaming so loudly for them to stop fighting, I lost my voice, but I got it back a day later.WIDDOES I ended up with a few loose teeth, but a student whod been leading us around, her dad was a dentist, so I was in his chair at 8 the next day. That fight cemented us as a group.The actors playing the militaristic Omega fraternity members  including Mr. Bacon  arrived to find they were already considered the enemy.MARK METCALF (the crazed cadet Neidermeyer) We walked into a coffee shop, and the Deltas were at a table with Landis. He said, Its Neidermeyer! Get him! They started throwing food and yelling at us.It didnt get any easier for Mr. Bacon when he shot a hazing scene.BACON (the abused pledge Chip) They showed me the paddle Metcalf was going to use on me, and it was made of balsa wood. I was like, No problem. But Landis had him hit me over and over. In the script, my character said Thank you, sir, may I have another? maybe three times. Landis kept yelling, Again! Again! Again! and it definitely started to sting.The cast stayed at a motel, where the debauchery rivaled the films toga party.McGILL It was too expensive to drink at the bar, so we went to a state liquor store and bought half-gallon bottles. I liberated a piano that was sitting in this forest of red waiters jackets in a closet and moved it to my room. We were unstoppable, man  we felt bulletproof.METCALF I stayed in the room above McGills. I wanted to party with the Deltas, but it wouldve been wrong for Neidermeyer to do that. I was kept up late by the noise. Id polish my R.O.T.C. helmet and get deeper and deeper into character.REITMAN I was staying at the motel with my wife and newborn son [the director Jason Reitman], so I didnt participate in those parties. The one I remember most was the Thanksgiving dinner John Belushi and his wife, Judy, hosted at a house they rented in Eugene. They had all of the people from out of town over for turkey and all the trimmings. It was lovely.In need of a big-name actor to give the film legitimacy, Mr. Landis recruited Donald Sutherland to play a pot-smoking professor who sleeps with Katy.  No one seemed to agree on why Mr. Sutherland bared his butt in the film.ALLEN My impression was Donald did it to make me feel more relaxed. Landis suddenly said to me, Were going to focus on your naked butt, and that wasnt in the script. I said, Thats not going to happen, and Donald said, Well, if she has to show her butt, Ill show mine, too.DONALD SUTHERLAND I said, Just as a joke, lets do one take with my bare bum. My wife said to John, If you use this, I will never speak to you again. He used it, and she didnt speak to him again. It got a laugh, but I would rather my wife be happy.LANDIS Karen was uneasy about showing her tush. Donald had been naked in, like, 30 movies, so I asked him to show his ass, and when I explained the gag, he said, Yes, absolutely.The film was shot in 31 days. After test screenings began, word filtered back to the cast members they might have a hit on their hands.RIEGERT The first preview was for a college audience in Denver. I called Landis and he said, Let me play you something. Hed recorded the audiences reaction, and you couldnt hear half the lines  it was all whistling, screaming, laughing and cheering. I said, Oh my God, what is that? And he said, That is the sound of a cash register.REITMAN I was there, and it was like a rock concert.BACON Nobody had seen anything quite like Animal House. It defined a genre that hadnt really existed up to that point. It was outlandish, and it pushed the boundaries of whats gross and inappropriately sexual, but it wasnt pornographic.ALLEN After it came out, suddenly the doors to casting offices flew open for us.MATHESON It brought a new spirit  that S.N.L. feeling  into features.It also gave an unlikely career boost to DeWayne Jessie, who played the singer Otis Day in the roadhouse scene. Although his vocals were dubbed by Lloyd Williams, Mr. Jessie adopted the name Otis Day and began singing at gigs with a band. Hes still doing it.LANDIS For years, people would say to me, Hey, I saw Otis Day and the Knights  they were great! And I would say, Theyre fictional. They dont exist. What are you smoking? It turns out, I learned at the 25th anniversary reunion, he had been touring.DeWAYNE JESSIE Being Otis changed me as a person. Its a moneymaker, dude!Despite its often politically incorrect humor, Animal House remains popular to this day.ALLEN I find it funnier now than I did then. You cringe at it in a way, but its an interesting kind of cringe. Whats great about the film is it really makes fun of everybody.LANDIS It captures what everybody considers the best years of your life  the first time youre independent and feel a tremendous sense of freedom, but before all the responsibilities come.McGILL It taps into that time when your body is grown but youve not yet reached maturity. It wasnt just a Universal picture  it was a universal picture.RIEGERT I heard somebody refer to it as a training film. Kids in eighth or 10th grade have told me they couldnt wait to go to college because they thought it would be like Animal House.MATHESON My daughter called me when she went to college and said, Dad, Im at a toga party  youve gotta say hi to my friends.Four decades later, the ties forged among the actors feel as real as any collegiate friendships.RIEGERT In a funny kind of way, its as if we went to Faber.WIDDOES None of us were in fraternities when we went to college. This became our fraternity.ALLEN To this day, Ive never worked on a film where I stayed closer to the cast.BACON I have a tremendous amount of fondness for the film and those memories. It was like my first love.
