Millicent Melissa Souris and the Rev. Vincent Robert Anderson are to be married May 6 in Brooklyn. The Rev. Ann M. Kansfield, a minister of the United Church of Christ, is to officiate at Crest Hardware and Urban Garden Center.Ms. Souris, 44, is a cook at St. Johns Bread and Life, a soup kitchen in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, and also runs a culinary job-training program there. She is the author of How to Build a Better Pie (Quarry Books, 2012). She graduated from Oberlin College.She is a daughter of Sally V. Snell of Cockeysville, Md., and the late Bobby Souris. The brides mother is a partner in Recognition Consultants, which develops and installs signage recognizing financial contributions to institutions, in Cockeysville. Her father ran the family bar, Souris Saloon, which is in Towson, Md. The bride is also a stepdaughter of the late William Snell.Mr. Anderson, 47, is a musician who has a regular Monday gig with his band, the Love Choir, at Union Pool, a bar in Brooklyn. He is also an ordained minister of the Revolution Church, a nondenominational Christian church, and is the director for arts and community development at Bushwick Abbey, an Episcopal congregation in Brooklyn. He graduated from the University of the Pacific.He is a son of Maurine A. Anderson of Fresno, Calif., and the late Robert C. Anderson. The grooms mother retired as an evaluator for the gifted and talented education program in the public schools of Fresno. His father retired as a copy machine salesman for Savin in Fresno.Ms. Kansfield introduced the couple in 2013, at her church in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. They instantly recognized each other, having met 10 years earlier when the Mr. Anderson submitted a self-released CD to the independent record distributor in Chicago at which Ms. Souris worked. Shed helped me book a show on tour, he said. Ms. Souris said that she remembers being intrigued when she met him. I was just kind of taken with this concept of dirty gospel and a bourbon-drinking reverend, she said. A beautiful weirdo.
