Leslie Dee Rosenbaum and Charles Harrison are to be married May 6 at the Water Club in Manhattan. Louis Rosenbaum, the brides brother who became a Universal Life minister for the event, is to officiate.Ms. Rosenbaum, 65, is a real estate investor in Nashville. She is a daughter of the late Gloria Rosenbaum and the late Leo I. Rosenbaum, who lived in Los Angeles. The bride's father was an international clothing manufacturer in Hong Kong and New York who owned the designer label, Ciao.Mr. Harrison, who is 65 and a bass guitarist, is currently touring with Lee Roy Parnell, a rhythm and blues singer and guitar player. Mr. Harrison has also toured worldwide with Rod Stewart and throughout Africa with Richard Marx. He is a son of the late Marjorie Harrison and the late Charles Harrison, who lived in Tamworth, England. The grooms father was a welder with MGK, a contractor based in Curdworth, England.The grooms first marriage ended in divorce.Ms. Rosenbaum was just 18 when she and a girlfriend left New York in September 1970 to explore London.I was always into fashion and culture, Ms. Rosenbaum said, and I was always fascinated by London.Shortly after arriving there, she and her friend went out to the Speakeasy, a London club frequented by marquee names in the music industry like Elton John, Jimi Hendrix, the Who and Led Zeppelin.Ms. Rosenbaum bumped into Mr. Harrison, a 17-year-old professional bass guitarist player for the pop star Leo Sayer.I was like, Wow, this girl from New York is beautiful, Mr. Harrison recalled. I was totally swept off my feet.For Ms. Rosenbaum, who said she found him adorable, London soon became much more fascinating in the company of Mr. Harrison.He was so sweet and so talented, she said. We just seemed to fit perfectly together.While her friend eventually returned to New York, Ms. Rosenbaum stayed in England for nearly two years with Mr. Harrison, leaving only once, for a three-month visit to Hong Kong, where her parents and sister had moved to for business reasons.Ms. Rosenbaum, who said that she and Mr. Harrison had sort of stopped dating but became the best of friends, moved to Los Angeles in 1972 to take a job in the movie industry overseeing the distribution of big-screen films to theaters across the country.Two years later, Mr. Harrison was on tour in the United States and Ms. Rosenbaum went to see him play at the Troubadour, a nightclub in West Hollywood, Calif.I was only 21 and he was only 20, but just seeing him again made me realize I was still very much in love with him, Ms. Rosenbaum said. So I went back to England to live with him again.One year later, their relationship hit a sour note when Mr. Harrison came home and told Ms. Rosenbaum that he had met another woman while on tour in America, and even worse, he was planning on marrying her.I was devastated, absolutely heartbroken, Ms. Rosenbaum said. I thought to myself, Im too young for all of this, and went back to Los Angeles.Nevertheless, they kept in touch through the years, during which Ms. Rosenbaum became engaged three times, but never made it to the finish line, as she put it.They were all nice guys, but I never felt for any of them the way I had felt for Charles, she said. I just knew that if I had married any of them, I would have eventually been divorced.In 2011, Ms. Rosenbaum received a phone call from Mr. Harrison, who told her that he was now divorced and living in Nashville, and that he still loved her.I had been thinking about Leslie for a long time, and realized that I was still in love with my best mate, he said. I knew that something was missing from my life and I knew that something was her. She is the most darling, precious human being I had ever met and I called to tell her that, and then I went to Los Angeles to tell her in person, and in doing so, I broke down and cried.Ms. Rosenbaum, though unsure at first, began dating Mr. Harrison long-distance, and eventually moved to Nashville to live with him again. Last September, they were in Central Park having lunch when Ms. Rosenbaum, who had been waiting more than 40 years to marry Mr. Harrison, could wait no longer.I asked him to marry me, she said.Mr. Harrison said yes, but not before he broke down and cried again.
