PARIS  He has built everything from space rockets to airport terminals, a reproduction of the Eiffel Tower and even a supermarket as backdrops for his runway shows. So really, it should come as no surprise that for the 2018 Chanel Cruise collection Karl Lagerfeld pushed the boat out. Literally.A 330-foot-long steel-welded ocean liner stood beneath the vast glass dome of the Grand Palais on Thursday night, steam puffing from two scarlet funnels as scores of portholes twinkled with bright lights and inky black waves seemed to lap at the hull, all reminiscent of a chic Mediterranean port at midnight. Named La Pausa after the villa in the South of France once owned by Gabrielle Coco Chanel, the cruise ship set had taken two months to build. And the show was the next leg of a Chanel voyage that began in December at the Mtiers d'Art show in Hamburg, Germany, which also was  inspired by the high seas  specifically the merchant mariners from that city, which Mr. Lagerfeld once called home.Ive seen a few incredible film sets in my time but nothing like this, Margot Robbie said. Im genuinely speechless. The actress, who had been named a brand ambassador in March, was bedecked in multicolored sparkles for her first Chanel catwalk show, and was sandwiched between Kristen Stewart and Lily-Rose Depp on the front row. But Ms. Robbie hadnt seen the clothes yet. Oh buoy.The 90 looks sported by models of the moment like Adut Akech, Stella Maxwell and the Hadid sisters, who strutted alongside the liner on the quay, began with a reworked series of nautical Chanel signatures. Slouchy black-and-white sailor-stripe pajama pants or knee-length pleated skirts were teamed with double-C-logo roll-neck cashmere sweaters; boxy boucl skirt suits  had a Sixties silhouette and sea spray palette; and almost every look arrived with a kitschy handbag, including white quilted box bags, rope fisherman totes and round evening clutches shaped like life preservers.Next came a sweet fleet of striped candy-colored dresses and separates (most with a tide line of exposed midriff), swiftly followed by some splash-proof Eighties-inspired plastic shifts and bomber jackets in red, white and blue. Then there were some less convincing shredded denim pedal pushers and zippered tweed tracksuits that frankly deserved to be thrown overboard. Things got back on course at the end, via black and blue dresses with billowing geometric ship and shark prints, and a dazzling all-white sequined sleeveless closing number with aquamarine waves lapping at the hemline. Captain Karl duly took to the deck to take his bow (alongside Chanels longtime fashion studio director, Virginie Viard  a change from his godson Hudson Kroenig, and an interesting one) before a fog horn tooted victoriously, the gangplanks were lowered and guests were welcomed on board for a blow out party complete with an ice cream stand, oyster bar and even faux hot tub. Think a booze cruise for billionaires, or those who aspire to be ones, with live entertainment that went on long into the night.If all this showboating sounds ridiculous  it was, kind of. Nevertheless, Cruise shows as an industry business strategy are becoming an evermore serious matter. Falling between the traditional fall and spring show seasons, the Cruise season and its late-summer counterpart, Pre-Fall, now account for 60 to 80 percent of designer clothing sales for luxury brands. No wonder most houses continue to plow serious money into extravaganzas to showcase their latest resort collections. But after several years of opting for exotic destinations, many of the big league brands have, like Chanel, decided to stay closer to home.  Later this month Christian Dior will show in Chantilly, a short trip outside Paris; Louis Vuitton in St.-Paul-de-Vence, in the South of France, and even Gucci has got in on the Gallic act, choosing to set its runway show in Arles. All aboard.
