VENGEANCE By Zachary Lazar 251 pp. Catapult. Paper, $16.95.The whole of anything, Henry James once wrote, is never told. The unnamed narrator of Zachary Lazars absorbing and prismatic new novel, Vengeance, would surely confirm this sentiment. Lazars is a literature of working through, a groping around in the unknowable, as he calls it. He is at least as interested in how the story is told as in the story itself.The story in Vengeance is superficially straightforward and painfully familiar. In a style thats clear and plain, the narrator recounts his experiences with Kendrick King, a felon serving a life sentence at the Louisiana State Penitentiary, better known as Angola, named for the slave plantation that once occupied the site and for the African country from which those slaves were taken. Kendrick has a role in Angolas production of a passion play called The Life of Jesus Christ, which the narrator and his photographer friend, Deborah, have come to document.The narrator, drawn to Kendrick, becomes consumed with the question of his innocence or guilt. The novel alternates between his years of interviews with Kendrick and members of his family and friends and imagined day-of-the-crime scenes told from Kendricks point of view. Lazar also incorporates transcripts of interrogations as he expertly draws us into his pendulum of belief and doubt, and the reader travels with his narrator as he bends first toward Kendricks innocence and then away: What haunted me in particular was that my imagining of Kendrick and Lawrence doing the murder together was at least as vivid as my imagining of Kendrick not being there. In the first scenario, he was active, while in the other he didnt do anything, and so perhaps it was no wonder that the first scenario, because it was more dramatic, triggered my imagination. But perhaps it simply meant that my imagination was more like Detective Lagardes than I wanted to admit. I didnt believe Kendrick had been there, but I could envision it with clarity.When the narrator was 6 years old, his father was murdered, an event woven through the book. This unresolved childhood wound is part of what draws him to Kendricks plight, resulting in a story I kept narrating moment by moment to try to get the world to fit back into my idea of it. He is aware, however, that unlike Kendrick he has the privilege of being able to turn away.Reading Vengeance, there is an inescapable discomfort as white artists come in and out of the lives of black inmates and their families, a discomfort that brings to mind what Toni Morrison has called literary journeys into the forbidden space of blackness, though here the discomfort seems intended. His narrator is at least intermittently aware of his precarious place and the absurdity of his quest. As he forces on these characters stories about his father, his books, his life, the reader squirms. But so does the narrator: The further I went with the story, the less I understood why I was telling it.Lazars narrator is a complex creation, and his occasionally clueless privilege  an important part of the story of race in America  is balanced by painful awareness: I have a good life now, he writes to the parole board, a home, a wife I love, money  but I know that much of that is luck, redounding to my surface, even to the color of my skin, which in this time and place is called white. In contrast, as Kendricks brother tells him, I knew he was innocent, but I knew what was going to happen anyway. For Lazars black characters, the uncertainty of the story would never end, only change.ImageLabels cause no end of difficulty, but for ease of discussion, Vengeance is the latest entry in the 21st-century autofiction sweepstakes. Autofiction (the term was coined by the French writer and theorist Serge Doubrovsky in 1977) seeks to blend autobiography and fiction in a mysterious, almost alchemical fashion, in pursuit of a deeper truth than either mere autobiography or fiction can deliver. Its high practitioner is the great W. G. Sebald, whose brilliant novels have cast an influential shadow over a generation of writers including Rachel Cusk, Teju Cole, Sheila Heti and Ben Lerner.In the case of Vengeance, although Kendrick appears to be a fictional or composite character, the narrator shares many details of Lazars own biography. Hes the author of the same number of prior books (four), lives in the same place (New Orleans), has the same friends (the photographer Deborah Luster) and the same murdered father. (Lazar wrote about his fathers death in a 2009 memoir, Evenings Empire: The Story of My Fathers Murder.)At first, these details can distract a reader who is aware of them. But as Lazars narrator winds through his interviews, tackling the disconnect between truth or fact and what we can really know, the strategy of blending the real and the imagined gradually serves to heighten both. As he remarks, What I seem to resist is the idea that the real and the imaginary dont bleed into each other. Perhaps Sebalds own, more elegant term  documentary fiction  is useful here, for Vengeance has a distinctly documentary feel.For all their similarities, though, its a mistake to conflate Lazar and his narrator, as he more or less informs us directly: I knew if I ever started writing about Kendrick, he would become a character, I would become a character, and these likenesses, no matter how grounded in fact, would be fictions, approximations, versions among other versions. What too much autofiction has in common is a weakness for the self-indulgent, for spelling things out and for elevating the quotidian, the banal into thin profundities. In Vengeance, the frame may be wide (prison, racial injustice) but the range of motion can be narrow and Lazar, on occasion, falls into this trap, as when he writes, There were obvious differences between us, and beneath them were hidden, more mysterious differences, but there were also things we both understood. Or: Im talking about the problem of seeing anything clearly in the time and place in which we live. But the lapses are few, and Lazar can be deeply moving as he captures the hopelessness that surrounds him: He actually said we, not people, as if he still played a part in this exchange and had not been exiled from the world of people and what they believed.The families of Vengeance are torn apart by injustice, and Kendricks incarceration leaves a half-dozen ruined lives in its wake. Throughout the novel, we feel heartbreaking possibility, the near miss of lives that might have been. Still, Lazars indefatigable narrator keeps showing up, asking questions, writing letters, groping toward a truth that can never be fully known. Though nothing changes at the end  Kendricks sentence continues uninterrupted and the question of his innocence or guilt remains open  Lazar and his narrator both know that we are humanized through contact with other people, through stories, whether fiction or nonfiction or some combination of both.In the end, though, as Lazars narrator seems to understand, stories are small comfort in a world that contains an Angola: You can spend your life here for being present during a crime, even if you didnt commit it yourself. You can spend your life here for doing something stupid when youre 16. You can spend your life here for killing your girlfriend and setting her house on fire, or for killing someone like my father for money, or you can spend it here for doing nothing at all, an innocent person, or an exemplary one, like Kendrick, or like the protagonist of The Life of Jesus Christ.
