John Henry Korman and Sean Joseph McGuinness were married May 5. Scott D. Hecht, a Universal Life minister and friend of the couple, officiated at the weekend beach house in Wading River, N.Y., of another friend, Tom Watson.Mr. Korman (left), 67, is a gardener whose company, Huckleberry Hill, which was in Wading River, provided gardening and garden design and installation services. He graduated from Florida State University, and received a masters degree in printmaking from N.Y.U.He is the son of the late Florence Rediker Korman and the late Alfred J. Korman, who lived in Forest Hills, Queens.Mr. McGuinness, 64, retired from the National Park Service as the superintendent of the Upper Delaware Scenic and Recreational River in Beach Lake, Pa. He graduated from the State College of New York at Fredonia.He is a son of the late Violet McGuinness and the late John J. McGuinness, who lived together in Hamburg, N.Y.Mr. McGuinnesss previous marriage ended in divorce.Mr. Korman and Mr. McGuinness met in 2005, at a gay bar in Bayshore, N.Y., and the chemistry between them was instantaneous. They chatted for a while and agreed to meet again at a different bar, which wasnt a gay bar, in Bellport, N.Y. It was a bar Mr. Korman knew well and had suggested because it was near where Mr. McGuinness lived.Mr. Korman arrived first, and chatted with a number of acquaintances, telling them about the good-looking, green-eyed gentleman with a beautiful smile whom he was there to meet. When Mr. McGuinness arrived, it turned out that he, too, knew a number of people in the bar. At the time, he was the deputy superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore.But Mr. McGuinness, who got a seasonal ranger job in Jackson Hole, Wyo., for his first job out of college and then spent his entire career in the National Park Service, hadnt yet come out publicly.It wasnt in me to come out, Mr. McGuinness said. I was nervous about work, I was nervous about family.Mr. Korman said: So all of the sudden, he was out that night. I sheepishly said, I told them you were coming.Mr. Korman not only admired Mr. McGuinnesss good looks, he also was attracted to, and shared, his new acquaintances appreciation for nature and a very physical lifestyle. Hes a hardworking guy, responsible and hes outdoorsy and fun, he said.But in addition to Mr. McGuinnesss reticence about acknowledging his sexuality publicly, another obstacle to the development of a romance was revealed: Mr. McGuinness was pursuing his ambition of becoming a park superintendent and moving back to the West.So basically there was no future to this relationship, Mr. Korman said. Rather than accept the rebuff, Mr. Korman decided he would make the relationship work anyway.He wouldnt let go, Mr. McGuinness said. He just pursued me, and in the meantime we were having a really nice time. And in the process, I kept falling more in love with him.When it finally looked like Mr. McGuinness might get a chance at being a park superintendent  in Alaska  he found that his priorities seemed to have changed.I couldnt sleep at night, he said. If I take this job, its the end of John and I. Hes so kind and caring and really interesting and smart and knows everything about the opera and almost speaks fluent Spanish. So I called the manager up in Alaska and asked him to withdraw my application.By 2014, Mr. McGuinness had retired from the Park Service, moved in with Mr. Korman and come out to his friends and family.I think what really triggered Seans coming out was that he realized it became silly hiding me, Mr. Korman said. He felt it was not fair to me. And seeing how comfortable I was with my family, I think it was a pretty good role modeling.
