Minimalist Jewelry Made From Recycled GoldThe Berlin-based jewelry designer Lilian von Trapp grew up in a family of lawyers, doctors and professors, where fashion and jewelry were not much discussed. But my two grandmothers loved jewelry, says von Trapp, who dutifully went on to study law herself. When her mother passed away and von Trapp inherited her pieces, along with her grandmothers and great-grandmothers, she decided to look for a new direction. She quit law, kept what heirlooms had emotional value, and instead of locking the rest away in a safe, she had them repurposed. With the help of a local goldsmith, she used the metal and stones to create pieces of her own design  and her namesake jewelry brand was born.This idea of recycling is paramount to von Trapp, who crafts her streamlined modern essentials, like stackable rings in mixed yellow, rose and white gold, exclusively from repurposed gold  found everywhere from pawn shops to the microchips of discarded cellphones. Theres so much gold in the market. If everyone just gave back to the cycle there wouldnt be a need to mine anymore, she says. She donates 2 percent of the profit from every sale to Earthbeat Foundation, a nonprofit organization which helps gold-mining communities build alternative sources of income, and she avoids using newly mined or recut diamonds, which are often cut under horrible circumstances, she explains. Longevity and versatility are also built into the design of each piece. Her signature 14-carat-gold Round Ones hoop earrings, for example, have a small hole through which other earrings can be threaded to create new pieces. Its important with jewelry to create something sustainable in that its timeless, fits to any occasion and any situation, and becomes a uniform forever, von Trapp says. lilianvontrapp.com  KIKI GEORGIOUImageA monogrammed tote bag on the runway at Gucci.CreditCourtesy of GucciMake Your Own Gucci Tote BagUntil recently, Guccis only real presence in SoHo has been the aptly monikered Gucci Art Wall, an ongoing series of painted billboard-like murals for the brand overlooking a stretch of Lafayette Street. This Sunday, however, the Italian luxury house touches down on street level with the opening of a new retail space. In addition to womens and mens clothing and accessories, visitors will be able to shop the brands distinctly unique, vibrantly printed furnishings and dcor objects from its recently launched home collection. There will also be a number of items exclusive to the store: mens baseball jackets bearing old-school NY lettering, for example, and slick black sunglasses resembling laboratory goggles from the spring/summer 2018 collection. Speaking of experimentation, true to the stores self-designation as an experiential lab of sorts, its also the first Gucci location in the world that will feature newfangled interactive AR technology that will allow shoppers to customize a new assortment of tote bags and the brands trademark Ace sneaker. Consider it D.I.Y. Gucci. 63 Wooster Street, New York, gucci.com  LAURA NEILSON Hugo Guinness Debuts Oil Paintings Seventeen years ago, the designer John Derian and the artist Hugo Guinness met at a party  and soon after Derian began stocking Guinnesss works in his East Village home goods and furniture store. Over the years, their collaboration grew, and every spring, they would stage a well-attended event there to showcase Guinnesss works, distinctive, whimsical drawings and linocuts of flowers, people, dogs and objects. Last month, when Derian opened a new shop in Greenwich Village  his fourth location in New York  they were inspired to try something different. Hugo decided not to have a show this year, he was in the middle of making these new beautiful little oil paintings and didnt want to stop and have one, Derian says. But after seeing my new little shop on Christopher Street, he was charmed by the scale and thought it would be fun to hang some of them there for a night and have a dinner-sized, intimate thing for a few friends instead. So next week, 12 of Guinnesss new small-scale oil paintings  including still lifes of flowers and pottery, as well as nudes  will go on view at the shop, before theyre moved to Derians Dry Goods store across town. The works will be on view on May 8 at 18 Christopher Street, New York; beginning May 9 they will move to 10 East Second Street. Prices upon request.  ISABEL WILKINSON Marble Fruits, With Ceramic Whipped CreamThe lusciousness of the first bite of whipped cream on top of a sundae and the feel of the curve of a breast in ones hand evoke feelings that for some are one in the same, says the New York-based artist Genesis Belanger, whose ceramic sculptures often cast commonplace foods in surreal new lights. A selection of her latest work  including a vase with two protruding hands that cup twin dollops of cream  will go on view at Reyes Projects in Birmingham, Michigan, next week, in the exhibition Body So Delicious. The group show will feature the work of five artists who explore the interactions between food and the body.The exhibition began with softly hued paintings of hot dogs, the shows curator, Bridget Finn, explains. She had seen the artist Ivy Haldemans eroticized renderings of sausages, emerging from pillowy buns, and couldnt get them out of her head. Theyre just so sensuous, she says of the hot dogs anthropomorphic forms, which humorously suggest the ties between desire, consumerism, food and sex. From there, Finn saw a through line to the sculptor Nevine Mahmouds laboriously hand-carved marble sculptures of fruit, the artist Alix Pearlsteins woven Band-Aid works and the artist Amy Breners hanging silicone sculptures, which often appear as if they have ingested troves of miscellaneous everyday objects. Finn will display new work from each of these five artists, who happen to all be female. Theres a metaphysical thread, sure, but, really, the works are more experiential, in referencing the actual needs and wants of the body  which I think women may be more in tune with, Finn says. On view at Reyes Projects, 100 South Old Woodward Avenue, Birmingham, Michigan, from May 10  June 16, reyesprojects.com.  ALICE NEWELL-HANSONRick Owens Takes Over Barneys  and Its MenuThe designer Rick Owens doesnt mean to be morbid, but he cant help it, he remarks, his voice brimming with a warmth that one wouldnt expect to accompany that sort of statement. Im always a little bit morbid and kind of pessimistic, even, it seems, after receiving the CFDA Lifetime Achievement award last year and, more recently, serving as the subject of a museum retrospective. I automatically think, What happens next? Owens says, Will it quietly go downhill from now, is that what this means? Or is it like, Get off the stage?Thankfully, the answer is neither; today, an adaptation of the exhibition Rick Owens Subhuman Inhuman Superhuman, which ran at the Triennale di Milano until the end of March, opens at Barneys New York. The new installation features 21 Rick Owens runway looks from the past two decades, runway video projections, several pieces of Owenss monolithic furniture and display cases of ephemera, including old catalogs, sketches and accessory prototypes. A re-creation of his, well, intentionally turdlike land art-inspired sculpture from the Milan iteration unfurls across Barneys Madison Avenue windows.Owens also created a locally sourced and grass-fed burger for Freds restaurant at Barneys Downtown  for years, the California-born designer ate cheeseburgers almost every night at the cafe next to his home in Paris  and recorded a podcast episode for the store. I didnt need to try to be elusive and mysterious, he says of the entire project. It is what it is; I am what I am. I want to put on a show that Id want to see. On view at Barneys, 660 Madison Avenue, New York, through June 3, barneys.com.  HILARY MOSS
