Gabriella Carolina Bunker Gentil and Kyle Christopher Hickson were married May 5 at the Lyford Cay Club in Nassau, New Providence, Bahamas. Keith Cartwright, archdeacon of the Diocese of the Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos Islands, officiated.The bride, 28, and the groom, 31, are managers of the Faru Faru Lodge, a conservation and hospitality company in the Grumeti Reserve, Serengeti, Tanzania.The bride graduated from Georgetown and received an M.B.A. from the IE Business School in Madrid. She is also a member of Empowers Africa, a nonprofit organization based in New York that focuses on human empowerment and wildlife conservation. She has also been involved with fund-raising for anti-poaching efforts and the translocation of rhinos from South Africa to Botswana.She is the daughter of Elizabeth Christiansen Gentil and Fernando Bunker Gentil of Greenwich, Conn. The bride's father retired as a partner in G5 Evercore Private Equity, a firm in So Paulo, Brazil, and is currently a board member of both Taesa, a power distribution company in Brazil, and Alesat, a fuel distribution company there. Her mother, a former banker, is a trustee of Empowers Africa. She was a founder of the Georgetown Scholarship Program, which supports first-generation students. The bride is a great-granddaughter of the late Ellsworth Bunker, the United States ambassador to Argentina, Italy, Nepal and South Vietnam.The groom received an undergraduate diploma in nature conservation from the Tswane University of Technology in Pretoria, South Africa, where he is currently studying for a postgraduate degree in conservation.He is a son of Catherine Ann Hickson of Westville, South Africa, and Graham Neville Hickson of Gauteng, South Africa. The groom's father is a film director and producer in Johannesburg, South Africa. He was first assistant director on both the 1995 documentary, Cry, the Beloved Country, and the 2011 documentary Black Butterflies. The groom's mother is a master sailor in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. She is also a project manager for South Africa Sailing, a sports federation and national member authority under World Sailing. The groom is a stepson of Sandra de Witt. His stepmother retired as a creative director with an advertising firm in Johannesburg.The couple met in 2012 when the bride was on a safari in Kruger Park in South Africa. The groom was already working there as a safari guide and staying in the same lodge as the bride.
