There is no friendlier territory on television for Trump supporters than Sean Hannitys nightly hour on Fox News, where President Trump is forever the victim of a witch hunt and the liberal media is perennially bent on his destruction.That safe-space bubble popped  in dramatic, headline-making fashion  on Wednesday night, when Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor and current member of Mr. Trumps legal team, casually confirmed to the startled host that the president had personally repaid his lawyer the money he had laid out to make his problem with a pornographic actress go away.Oh, Mr. Hannity replied, his usual bombast briefly escaping him. I didnt know  he did?It was an off-message moment from the ultimate on-message show  and just the latest in a string of agita-inducing moments for Mr. Trump that have played out, improbably, on his favorite television network.Mr. Giulianis admission stunned Mr. Trumps closest advisers, many of whom  including the press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders  learned about Mr. Trumps payment while watching Hannity. Even so, the candor may have been by design: Mr. Giuliani said the presidents involvement showed that the payment had not violated campaign finance laws.It was harder to locate the strategy behind Mr. Trumps swerving, stream-of-consciousness telephone interview last week on Fox & Friends. On live TV, the president seemed to stumble into acknowledging, for the first time, that he knew about his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, funneling $130,000 in hush money to an adult film actress who had claimed to have had an affair with the future president.He represents me, like with this crazy Stormy Daniels deal, Mr. Trump said, as the shows hosts listened politely.The president went on to say that Mr. Cohen does a tiny, tiny little fraction of his legal work  prompting prosecutors to file a fresh brief saying that the comment had undermined the presidents legal argument that documents seized from Mr. Cohen in a raid by prosecutors, were protected by attorney-client privilege.On Thursday, Fox & Friends played host to another awkward and possibly significant exchange. Mr. Giuliani, back on the network less than 12 hours after his appearance on Hannity aired, mused that Mr. Cohens efforts to quiet Ms. Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, had helped Mr. Trumps presidential bid.Imagine if that came out on Oct. 15, 2016, in the middle of the, you know, last debate with Hillary Clinton, Mr. Giuliani said.Fair point  but problematic for Mr. Trump, whose legal team would be better off avoiding any suggestion that he had violated federal campaign finance laws that require the disclosure of spending meant to influence the electorate.Michael Avenatti, the voluble lawyer representing Ms. Clifford, responded on Twitter by thanking Fox & Friends for helping our case week in and week out.You are truly THE BEST, Mr. Avenatti wrote. Where can we send the gift basket?Perhaps Mr. Trump and his defenders feel more relaxed when chatting with Fox Newss stable of pundits, whose questions tend to be gentle. Those who know Mr. Trump well said that the presidents meandering call to Fox & Friends resembled the way he talks in private.Also, Mr. Trump and some of his closest allies choose to appear only on Fox News  meaning that any gaffes are bound to appear there, rather than on rival networks.Still, other moments have scrambled the usual Fox News formula.When the correspondent Ed Henry sat down in April with Scott Pruitt, the embattled head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Mr. Pruitt was hoping for the interview to clear up a cloud of ethics problems hanging over his tenure. Instead, Mr. Henry pelted him with questions that Mr. Pruitt visibly struggled to answer.Mr. Henry, though, belongs to the reporting side of Fox News, rather than its conservative commentariat. And the networks pundits have been less aggressive in their questioning when interviews go south.On Wednesday night, Mr. Hannity did not press Mr. Giuliani for details about the presidents reimbursing of Mr. Cohen, and the host even offered the former mayor a mulligan.But do you know the president didnt know about this? Mr. Hannity asked, seeming to prompt Mr. Giuliani to correct his earlier statement.He didnt know about the specifics of it as far as I know, Mr. Giuliani said. But he did know about the general arrangement that Michael would take care of things like this.Later, Laura Ingraham, who follows Mr. Hannity at 10 p.m., seemed taken aback at what had transpired in the previous hour.God, if you go on Hannity you better think it through, as the attorney for the president, she said, her eyes wide in disbelief.I love Rudy, she added, but they better have an explanation for that. Thats a problem.
