Good Friday afternoon! Its Met Gala minus three. Do you know what that means? It means that across the celebrity-fashion-society-finance axis gowns are being brushed, bodies buffed and eyebrows threaded. Personally, it means Im on the edge of my seat waiting to see how the lucky select guests (and they are select  personally signed off on as part of the optimum mix by Anna Wintour a.k.a. the Met Gala supreme power) interpret the dress code, it is Sunday Best, a reference to the exhibit that the party honors, Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination. My red carpet review will be up on Tuesday morning, so tune in then.It also means this newsletter is almost one year old. We published our first edition last year in time for the gala. Why? In part because it just gives us so doggone much to talk about, between the clothes and the costumes. (Wait  is there a difference?) But while we can talk for hours about that  and Id love to hear your thoughts  Id also love to hear your thoughts on Open Thread: What do you want more of? Less of? Is there another place youd like to continue the conversation? Is Friday afternoon a good time for this to land in your inbox or do you wish you woke up to this, say, Monday or Tuesday morning? Please tell us your opinion at openthread@nytimes.com. I already get emails from some of you  in response to last weeks note, for example, Martha McLendon wrote to let me know about a great seersucker dress currently available at Zara. And Deborah Landis from U.C.L.A. made the very relevant point that female costume designers do not get the credit the deserve. Shes right, so I am fixing that now: if The Handmaids Tale affects fashion, its down to Anne Crabtree; if Avengers: Infinity War does, thats thanks to Judianna Makovsky.So lets keep the back and forth going. One change Id like to make is to highlight the most interesting and pointed responses I get to each newsletter the following week, as above. Im sure there are more improvements you can think of, so send em in.In the meantime, get ready with your Met prep: no, not manicures and facials, but information gathering. Weve updated our all-you-need-to-know explainer about the party of the year. Jason Horowitz, The New York Timess Rome bureau chief, got the inside scoop on how the Metropolitan Museum convinced the Vatican that a fashion exhibit was a good idea. Hint: it took a lot of work.However, if youve had it up to here with the party, spend some time remembering handbag artist Judith Leiber instead; discover why dandy Cameron Silver is selling off a lot of his clothes (and what it means for the rest of us); and find out how the sensibility of Zac Posens artist dad helped form his sons aesthetic  and where to see his work. Have a good weekend.Q: Like kudzo, viscose is everywhere. Pricey carpets made of viscose are labeled art silk, but what about fashion? A Piazza Sempione dress I bought for mucho dinero is viscose; Akris Punto dresses are made of viscose. It looks and feels like silk but it isnt, and the high prices associated with these formerly silk dresses remain high. Whats the story with viscose?  Gloria, Mass.A: Well, first: like silk or pretty much any fabric, not all viscoses are created equal  which makes sense when you realize the official name for viscose is viscose rayon, and it is one of the oldest man-made fibers, first patented in 1884 by Hilaire de Bernigaut. Just because it is man-made, however, does not mean it is synthetic (though its not exactly all-natural either): viscose is made from wood pulp that has been chemically treated. Its name comes from a viscous  get it?  solution used during the process. The end product can have, as you point out, the feel of silk, though it can also mimic cotton and velvet. And just because it is man-made also does not mean it equates to cheap  especially if a designer is involved, when what you are paying for is in part the creativity and brand attached to the garment. So toss that idea in the scrap pile.As to why designers like it, according to Joseph Altuzarra, who founded an eponymous brand that is favored by Meghan Markle: I think viscose is misunderstood because it isnt a completely natural fiber, and natural fibers are usually thought-of more highly. I find that viscose drapes really beautifully, and I like viscoses hand. It also sews and wears really nicely. In the past few years, Ive noticed mills have developed a lot more interesting viscose fabrications, and pushed the limits of what you can do with it, and I have been really inspired by that.So there you go. From his email to your closet.
