People have complained forever about the complexity of German wine labels. Aside from the unfamiliarity of the language, the terminology is used almost nowhere else and does not always make intuitive sense.Paradoxically, the traditional labels have a precision to them that, if you take the time to learn the lingo, communicates almost exactly what is in the bottle. But that did not prevent complaints.So over the years, the German wine authorities and individual producers have tried to simplify things. Many producers now either use brand names for their moderately priced bottles, which cuts through the jargon, or at least have eliminated the gothic fonts that made labels hard to decipher even for those who were able to translate the meaning.The rise of dry riesling in Germany over the last 20 years gave the authorities an additional incentive to make wine labels friendlier to the public. Rather than seize this chance, the Germans appear to have made their labeling rules even more confusing.It used to be that those seeking dry German rieslings needed to keep an eye out for the word trocken, which means dry. But many producers, not without good reason, wanted to make distinctions between the quality of vineyard sites, so they created a Burgundy-inspired overlay that might at least suggest a geographical hierarchy for dry wines.The problem is, the newer terminology is not consistent through all German regions. Many producers who belong to certain growers associations have adopted the term grosses gewchs to indicate dry wines from individual vineyards deemed exceptional. But that phrase is not employed in the Rheingau region, where the preferred term is erstes gewchs.Meanwhile, erstes gewchs should not be confused with erste lage, which indicates wines from sites that aspire to grosses gewchs status but have yet to earn the designation. Nor should grosses gewchs be confused with grosse lage, indicating wines from top sites that are not dry. And definitely dont confuse grosse lage with grosslage, an old term meaning that a wine comes from several vineyards in a particular town rather than one vineyard, or einzellage.Not surprisingly, many producers choose to use the simpler trocken designation.Perhaps it is unfair sport to remark on the confusing nature of German wine labels. But I mention it because the wine panel recently tasted 20 bottles of dry German riesling from the largely excellent 2016 vintage. The tasting was blind, which spared us from the daunting label verbiage. But anybody examining the list of our 10 favorites will require a decoding device.For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Sabra Lewis, beverage director at LAtelier de Jol Robuchon. We usually aim for two guests, but our second was a casualty of the New York regions dysfunctional transit system, so we went ahead with just the three of us.Although Germanys sweet rieslings are singular and among the treasures of the wine world, its dry rieslings can be equally wonderful and are likewise unlike those from anywhere else.Rieslings from Austria generally feel firmer, denser and more penetrating, while those from Alsace are altogether bigger and more voluminous.If I can speak generally about dry German rieslings, which can vary considerably depending on which region they come from, they are often far more delicate in texture than the others, precise and jewel-like rather than rich.By many accounts, difficult weather made the 2016 vintage tough to manage for many growers, but it produced wines of exceptional balance that amplify many of the best traits of dry German rieslings. The wines we liked best were deep and profoundly mineral, while also resonant and refreshing.What do I mean by resonant? These are wines that feel three-dimensional in the mouth. They have length  their flavors proceed in a linear fashion and last long after you swallow  and depth, which suggests the sort of complexity that makes you want to taste the wine again and again in an effort to unravel the flavors.But these are also young wines, and the more ambitious among them will benefit from aging five to 10 years to allow these complexities to uncoil while mellowing the rippling acidity. Sabra wondered whether some of them would ever relax, and suggested that maybe 20 years would do it. I dont think it will take that long, but the best of these wines are well worth giving some time.Not all of the wines were exceptional, however. Balance was sometimes an issue. We rejected some wines that were overbearingly acidic  punishingly tart and lacking charm. Thats an old complaint about dry German rieslings, and one I was surprised to find might still have legitimacy.The good far outweighed the bad, however. Sabra called it a transparent vintage, meaning that the wines were quite expressive of their terroirs. And we found some excellent values, wines that are delicious right now. Top among them was our best value, a trocken from Schloss Mhlenhof in Rheinhessen  juicy, zesty and, if not complex, immensely satisfying, and just $13 for a liter.Right behind it was the Blauschiefer trocken from Stein in the Mosel, likewise lively, juicy and stony and just $19, albeit for a 750-milliliter bottle.While lovely bottles, these two predictably lacked the depth and nuance of our top (and more expensive) wines. Our No. 1 bottle was the Forster Ungeheuer grosses gewchs from von Winning in the Pfalz. Earthy, lively and multidimensional, the wine is a pleasure to drink now, but will get even better with time.If, by the way, you ever want to read some entertaining promotional wine writing, check out von Winnings American importer, Terry Theise, who describes this wine in his 2017 catalog like this: firm and caramelly, shiitakes, goose fat, but all in a heaving jiggling orgy of hedonism and licentiousness. Im afraid multidimensional is all you will get from me.No. 2 was the Lorcher Krone from Eva Fricke in the Rheingau, tightly coiled yet graceful and full of energy. Our No. 3 bottle was the Dalsheim Hubacker grosses gewchs from Keller in Rheinhessen, rich and succulent, with apricot and mineral flavors.Just behind these wines were the stony, tangy Haardter Herrenletten from Mller-Catoir in the Pfalz, the balanced energetic Maximin Klosterlay erste lage from Carl Loewen in the Mosel and the fresh, floral Dhroner Hofberg from A.J. Adam in the Mosel. Also well worth noting were the Marienburg Fahrlay grosses gewchs from Clemens Busch in the Mosel and the Detonation from Immich-Batterieberg, also in the Mosel.Its important to emphasize that this was a fragmentary tasting, simply a cross-section of the 2016 vintage. We did not have many bottles from the Nahe region, where the 16s have been especially lauded; and in a land of many small producers, you can look well beyond our top 10 to find wonderful bottles.Just know that they are well worth seeking out. And, if you are uncertain about which words indicate that a wine is dry beyond the all-purpose trocken, the alcohol level is often a dead giveaway. The sweet wines, in which all the sugar in the juice was not converted to alcohol in fermentation, are usually less than 10 percent alcohol. These dry bottles were 11.5 to 13 percent.Tasting Dry German Rieslings Von Winning Pfalz Forster Ungeheuer Riesling Grosses Gewchs 2016 $56Lively and multidimensional, with complex aromas and flavors of spices, citrus and earth. (Terry Theise Estate Selections/Skurnik Wines, New York) Eva Fricke Rheingau Lorcher Krone Riesling Trocken 2016 $60Graceful, tightly coiled and energetic, with aromas and flavors of flowers, citrus and minerals. (Bonhomie Wine Imports, South Orange, N.J.) Keller Rheinhessen Dalsheim Hubacker Riesling Grosses Gewchs 2016 $90Rich, deep and succulent, with aromas and flavors of apricots and minerals. (Petit Pois/Sussex Wines, Moorestown, N.J.) Mller-Catoir Pfalz Haardter Herrenletten Riesling Trocken 2016 $44Stony, fresh and resonant, with tangy, earthy, herbal flavors. (Terry Theise Estate Selections/Skurnik Wines, New York) Carl Loewen Mosel Maximin Klosterlay Riesling Trocken Erste Lage 2016 $28Great balance and energy, with aromas and flavors of wet rocks, lime and apple. (Terry Theise Estate Selections/Skurnik Wines, New York) A.J. Adam Mosel Dhroner Hofberg Trocken 2016 $67Fresh and floral, with balanced flavors of peaches and minerals. (Terry Theise Estate Selections/Skurnik Wines, New York)Best Value:  Schloss Mhlenhof Rheinhessen Riesling Trocken 2016 one liter, $13Fresh, juicy and zesty, with spicy flavors of citrus and peach. (Savio Soares Selections, Brooklyn) Stein Mosel Blauschiefer Riesling Trocken 2016 $19Lively and juicy, with flavors of peach, orange and wet stones. (Vom Boden, Brooklyn) Clemens Busch Mosel Marienburg Fahrlay Riesling Grosses Gewchs 2016 $71Fresh and delineated, with aromas and flavors of minerals, flowers and citrus. (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York) Immich-Batterieberg Mosel Riesling Trocken Detonation 2016 $28Zesty, with aromas and flavors of citrus, salt and flowers. (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York)Recipe: Blanquette of ScallopsCrisp, savory dry German rieslings can accompany all sorts of dishes, but theyre best paired with spring. And for me that means discarding dark sauces and turning toward ingredients that are light and green. Here Im inspired by the French blanquette, a stew, usually veal, in a creamy white sauce. I replaced the veal with plump sea scallops and brightened the whole thing with verdant, seasonal asparagus. Traditionally a blanquette is thickened with egg yolks and has pearl onions and often button mushrooms in the mix. The onion is in my version, but minced. I also omitted the mushrooms and used new potatoes that, unlike the mushrooms, help thicken a sauce made without the egg yolks. The result is a dish thats fancy enough for guests, yet easy enough for a weeknight. Just be sure to open that refreshing bottle of dry riesling alongside. FLORENCE FABRICANTFollow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.
