 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know:Trumps attack dog may have bitten him  Rudolph Giuliani, who recently joined President Trumps legal team, may have made things worse for his client by revealing the existence of payments to Michael Cohen, the presidents personal lawyer.The transfers were used, in part, to reimburse Mr. Cohen for the $130,000 he had paid to the porn star known as Stormy Daniels. Mr. Trump had previously denied knowing about the transactions but confirmed their existence on Thursday.Catching other White House aides off guard, Mr. Giuliani said his comments were meant to show that no campaign finance laws had been broken. We explain how the disclosures could open Mr. Trump to other legal trouble. Mr. Giulianis revelation came during an interview with Sean Hannity on Fox News, traditionally a safe space for the president.Cutting back in South Korea President Trump has ordered the Pentagon to prepare options for withdrawing some of the 28,500 U.S. troops stationed on the Korean Peninsula.According to several people briefed on the deliberations, reduced troop levels are not intended to be a bargaining chip in Mr. Trumps planned talks with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. But peace on the peninsula could reduce a need for the American military presence, for which the U.S. isnt adequately compensated, Mr. Trump says. In South Korea, President Moon Jae-in is determined to avoid the failures of past peace talks. Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim appear likely to meet at Panmunjom, a village in the Demilitarized Zone, by next month.A Nobel Prize is postponed The Nobel Prize in Literature will not be awarded this year, after a sexual abuse scandal engulfed the panel that selects it.The Swedish Academy announced today that it would postpone the 2018 award, naming two laureates next year.It will be the first time since World War II that one of the worlds most revered cultural honors has not been bestowed. Other Nobel Prizes are not affected. Jean-Claude Arnault, who has close ties to the Swedish Academy, has been accused of sexual assault or harassment by 18 women, allegations that he has denied. The crisis escalated after charges that the academy had mishandled the situation.Talking politics, and religion Last month, Speaker Paul Ryan asked the Rev. Patrick Conroy to step down as chaplain of the House of Representatives. Father Conroy, who had been in the post since 2011, complied despite not knowing what hed done wrong.He was later told that a prayer he delivered in November, during the debate over the tax overhaul, was too political. Father Conroy is a Jesuit, an order of priests viewed by some as liberal, while Mr. Ryan is a conservative Catholic. Father Conroy rescinded his resignation on Thursday, and Mr. Ryan reinstated him hours later. It is my job as speaker to do what is best for this body, and I know that this body is not well served by a protracted fight over such an important post, Mr. Ryan said in a statement.Teachers notch another win Arizona has become the fourth state this year in which protesting teachers left classrooms and won concessions from conservative lawmakers. (The others are West Virginia, Oklahoma and Kentucky.)Gov. Doug Ducey signed a budget bill on Thursday that he said would provide teachers with the 20 percent raises they had demanded, as well as additional funds for classrooms. At least one more state, North Carolina, is expecting a widespread teacher walkout in the coming weeks.Business The U.S. economy added 164,000 jobs in April, the Labor Department reported today. The unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent, the lowest rate since 2000. Boeing has a lot riding on a healthy U.S. relationship with China. A congressional race in Washington, where the company is a major employer, has become a test of whether a growing trade dispute will hurt Republican candidates.A U.S. trade delegation has arrived in Beijing for talks. But the Chinese officials sitting across from the Americans have limited experience in trade matters. Its hard to make  a case that the proposed Sprint-T-Mobile merger would benefit consumers. Our business columnist explains. Where are all the teenagers? Fast-food restaurants helped the economy recover, but a shortage of workers could change the equation. U.S. stocks were mixed on Thursday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Traveling the country is a great way to learn about civil rights. How to handle an old boss who wont let go. Recipe of the day: Keep it simple with fettuccine Alfredo.Noteworthy The week in good newsHumpback whales are making a comeback. Read about that and six other things that inspired us.Want the good news roundup by email? Sign up here. Quiz time!Did you keep up with this weeks news? Test yourself. Ready for the weekendAt the movies, we review Tully, starring Charlize Theron, and RBG, starring the Supreme Court justice and pop culture phenomenon Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Find all of this weeks film reviews here.Our chief movie critics also shared some of their thoughts and complaints about Hollywood.On TV, here are 10 shows well be talking about this month, as well as Mays best offerings on streaming services.We also picked eight new books, and have lots of recommendations if youre in New York: 15 plays and musicals, 14 pop, rock and jazz concerts, and seven things to do with kids.And for art lovers, our critics tell you what not to miss at Frieze New York and Tefaf New York. Best of late-night TVJimmy Fallon suggested that maybe its Rudolph Giuliani, not Stormy Daniels, who needs hush money. Quotation of the dayNew Yorkers have spoken. Were going to need bigger boats. Mayor Bill de Blasio, announcing an expansion of New York Citys ferry service. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. What were readingJohn Schwartz, a climate reporter for The Times, recommends this piece from The New Yorker: The story behind the Shirelles recording of Will You Love Me Tomorrow is wonderful. The video of a performance that goes with it, including what the author Elon Green calls essentially, a 10-second dance party, is irresistible. And the brief interview with Beverly Lee, with her summing up the beautiful song  What am I worth to you?  well, perfection.Back StorySaturday is Cinco de Mayo, a day that is often mistaken in the U.S. for Mexicos Independence Day.In fact, that is Sept. 16, now a national holiday. On that day in 1810, a priest named Miguel Hidalgo implored the nation to revolt against Spain, leading to Mexicos war for independence.ImageDuring a Cinco de Mayo celebration in Mexico City last year, participants dressed as Mexican and French troops, re-creating the battle that led to the holiday.CreditEduardo Verdugo/Associated PressCinco de Mayo, which commemorates an underdog victory over France in the Battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862, isnt widely celebrated in Mexico.The victory was short-lived, as France later occupied Mexico for a few years. But Cinco de Mayo was still celebrated in Puebla and, perhaps more significantly, by Mexican-Americans north of the border.The holiday gained popularity in the 20th century, and in 1989, an ad campaign by an importer of beers such as Modelo and Corona was introduced around the holiday.The commercialization of Cinco de Mayo (and criticism of cultural stereotypes) has since taken off. The research firm Nielsen reported that in 2013, Americans bought more than $600 million worth of beer during the week of Cinco de Mayo, more than during the weeks of the Super Bowl or St. Patricks Day.Claudio E. Cabrera wrote todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
