The versatile comedian John Mulaney returns with another Netflix special. And The Insult lands on streaming platforms. Whats StreamingJOHN MULANEY: KID GORGEOUS AT RADIO CITY (2018) on Netflix. Its been hard to keep up with John Mulaney. This stand-up comic and former Saturday Night Live writer stars in Oh, Hello on Broadway and the animated series Big Mouth. He also appears in Seth Rogens Hilarity for Charity and recently returned to S.N.L. as a host. In Kid Gorgeous, Mr. Mulaneys third stand-up Netflix special, he revisits awkward family stories from his childhood and shares his favorite introduction of a musical guest on S.N.L.MOST LIKELY TO MURDER (2018) on iTunes, Amazon and Google Play. Adam Pally stars as Billy, a formerly popular high school student who returns to his hometown only to realize hes lost his charm. When Billy learns that his ex-girlfriend Kara (Rachel Bloom, of, coincidentally, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend) is now dating the high school outcast (Vincent Kartheiser), he sets out to solve a murder mystery, framing the boyfriend as a killer in an attempt to win back Kara.THE INSULT (2018) on iTunes, Amazon, FandangoNOW, Google Play and YouTube. A seemingly trivial dispute between Tony (Adel Karam), a Lebanese Christian garage owner, and Yasser (Kamel El Basha), a Palestinian foreman, escalates to epic proportions in this Oscar-nominated drama by Ziad Doueiri. This film amplifies the consequences of intertwining the personal and political in a society riven by social divisions and old grudges. The Insult is a fascinating history lesson, A .O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. It is also a reminder that resentment and hatred dont necessarily recede when the fighting stops.SKLAR BROTHERS: HIPSTER GHOSTS (2018) on Starz.com. This stand-up special by the twins Randy and Jason Sklar finally finds its home. (It was scheduled to begin on Seeso last September before that streaming platform shut down.) The self-described postmodern take on a stand-up comedy duo takes a breather from hosting the podcasts Dumb People Town and View From the Cheap Seats to riff on topics like politics, raising children and canine racism in Hipster Ghosts.Whats on TVLA TO VEGAS 9 p.m. on Fox. This cheeky ensemble comedy about an airline crew of underdogs making weekend flights from Los Angeles to Las Vegas ends its first season. A fed-up Ronnie (Kim Matula) seeks work on another airline, leaving her relationship with Bryan (Zachary Knighton) up in the air.BLACKOUT IN PUERTO RICO 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). This joint investigation by Frontline and NPR explores how the federal response to Hurricane Maria left thousands of Puerto Ricans without power for months. It highlights problems with the Federal Emergency Management Agency that drastically stalled repair efforts, and examines how the islands economic crisis left its infrastructure in tatters well before the hurricane.
