Here are some films people will be talking about this year at Cannes.Birds of PassageThe opening film of Directors Fortnight is being advertised as the origin story of the drug trade. The filmmakers Ciro Guerra and Cristina Gallego of Colombia portray a family crime dynasty that faces a clash between tradition and the brutal demands of its illicit business. In 2015, Mr. Guerra mesmerized audiences with the trancelike Amazon River drama Embrace of the Serpent, and he is already at work on his next film with Robert Pattinson.BlacKkKlansmanSpike Lee is in the competition for the first time since Jungle Fever in 1991. Mr. Lees Cannes comeback seems likely to fry the brain circuits of viewers: Its the true story of Ron Stallworth, a black Colorado police detective who went undercover in the Ku Klux Klan in the late 1970s with the help of a white fellow officer. John David Washington, who played a conflicted cop in the Sundance award-winner Monsters and Men, stars as Mr. Stallworth with Adam Driver as his partner.BurningFans of Haruki Murakami will be curious about this adaptation of his short story Barn Burning. The director Lee Chang-dong of South Korea has spun a feature out of the tales chance encounters between a writer and a freewheeling couple (an arsonist and a model). Mr. Lees take may not follow all the particulars of the original, but Mr. Murakamis text is in good hands: The filmmakers last feature, Poetry, won Best Screenplay at Cannes. Steven Yuen, a Walking Dead alumnus, plays the fire-starter.CapernaumThe third feature from Nadine Labaki, a Lebanese director and actor, puts a new twist on the enduring theme of children finding their own place in the world. The story concerns a 12-year-old boy who sues his parents for bringing him into the world. Ms. Labaki, who directed the warm and wise beauty parlor drama Caramel, again taps nonprofessional actors for much of her cast and uses a Middle Eastern fishing village for a setting.The House That Jack BuiltMuch like Terry Gilliams long-gestating The Man Who Killed Don Quixote, Lars Von Triers latest feature was nearly going to be famous for not showing at Cannes. The uncertainty arose because Mr. Von Trier had been banned from the festival for comments he made in 2011 about Hitler. His film will screen out of competition. Mr. Von Triers newest provocation evokes pure, twisted id: A serial killer (Matt Dillon) undertakes five murders as if they were art. Uma Thurman, Bruno Ganz and Riley Keough also star.The Image BookA few years ago at Cannes, Jean-Luc Godard drew wild applause midfilm for the 3-D experiments of Goodbye to Language. The feat proved that a new film by the 87-year-old Mr. Godard remains an event, and after he missed the last edition, the 2018 lineup at last features his latest venture into the poetics of pure cinema. The film reportedly addresses the present and past of the Middle East, but as ever, the real draw is Mr. Godard.Happy as LazzaroLazzaro, a good-hearted farm boy, befriends a nobleman named Tancredi in Alice Rohrwachers long-awaited feature after The Wonders, a winner in the 2014 competition. Strange adventures in modernity ensue after Tancredi enlists Lazzaro in a kidnapping scheme involving  Tancredi. Ms. Rohrwachers feel for secluded communities and the wisdom of innocents looks to be on display in the story, which has a time-travel component that the director compares to the story of Rip Van Winkle.Long Days Journey Into NightBi Gan may not be as well known as his compatriot Jia Zhangke (who is also appearing in this years edition), but his prior feature, Kaili Blues, announced a spectacular new voice in Chinese cinema. In his next film, starring Sylvia Chang and Tang Wei, a man goes on a quest to track down a woman from his past. Its film noir, but infused with dazzling color. At the press conference announcing this years lineup, the feature was described as a mix of David Lynch and Hou Hsiao-hsien.Three FacesHonored at festivals across the world, the director Jafar Panahi has remained confined in Iran and nominally banned from filmmaking. But that has not prevented him from directing yet another feature. Mr. Panahi chronicles three Iranian actresses from different generations, pre- and post-revolution, setting the action in the countrys mountains as opposed to the usual backdrop of Tehran (or rooms in Tehran). The Cannes festival is reportedly trying to secure permission for Mr. Panahi to attend.Under the Silver LakeAndrew Garfield stars as a lost soul in what sounds like a classic trip into a Pynchon-esque California bizarro-world. Mr. Garfields character begins by trying to track down a beguiling woman who has disappeared, but who knows where it goes from there. The director David Robert Mitchell showed an indefatigable focus with his creepy twist on ghoulish stalker horror, It Follows, and the new film promises another destabilizing universe for audiences to enter.
