A man who fatally stabbed his girlfriend during a drug-fueled frenzy was convicted on Monday of manslaughter after a bench trial, but acquitted of the top charge of murder.Lamar Davenport, 33, ingested the drug phencyclidine, known as PCP, the night of the attack, in August 2015. He then used a hunting knife to stab his girlfriend, EDena Hines, 25 times as he raved about demons on the street near her apartment in Washington Heights.Mr. Davenports bizarre pronouncements and his use of the potent hallucinogen were a key part of the four-week trial in front of Justice Ellen N. Biben of State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He waived his right to a jury and let Justice Biben decide his fate.During closing arguments last week, a defense lawyer, Annie Costanzo, said that her client had become convinced under the influence of the drug that Ms. Hiness body was inhabited by a demon. He was too addled, she argued, to form the intent to harm her.The prosecution countered that Mr. Davenports supernatural delusions and use of PCP could not excuse the killing. His deadly actions had been unquestionably intentional, the assistant district attorney, Christopher Prevost, told the judge.Just before noon on Monday, Justice Biben announced that she had found Mr. Davenport not guilty of murder but guilty of first-degree manslaughter. She offered no insight into her verdict. The first-degree manslaughter conviction carries a penalty of up to 25 years in prison. Mr. Davenport is scheduled to be sentenced on May 29.Ms. Hines, 33, was related by marriage to Morgan Freeman, the Academy Award-winning actor. She played the part of a receptionist in one of his movies, 5 Flights Up. Prosecutors said that she had a passionate, turbulent and volatile relationship with Mr. Davenport.Defense lawyers said that the two had a history of using PCP, also called angel dust. On the night of the killing, Ms. Costanzo said, the two had returned to Ms. Hiness apartment on West 162nd Street after an outing downtown and did what they always did  got high together.Shortly before 3 a.m. Mr. Davenport left the apartment, followed by Ms. Hines. Video cameras captured parts of what happened next. Witnesses said that as he stabbed Ms. Hines, Mr. Davenport shouted release the demons and I love you, I always loved you, God would want this.Police officers said that Mr. Davenport appeared to be praying when they arrived. While in custody in the hours after the stabbing, Mr. Davenport told the police that he did not know why he was at a precinct and later stated: Jesus Christ is the savior. The devil is evil. The devil is full of lies. Repent for your sins. Court documents added that at one point Mr. Davenport awoke after sedation and shouted: Oh no, God. Why God? Why did this happen?Ms. Costanzo said that her client had suffered a psychotic break and was experiencing a religious-themed delusion, in which he believed demons were inside Ms. Hines. He was not cognizant enough to have had a conscious intent to kill her, she said, and so could not be found guilty of murder. But, she said, he had made a reckless decision to get high, which led to Ms. Hiness death.The death of Ms. Hines was not an intended consequence of his acts, she said. When Lamar Davenport was stabbing EDena Hines he was trying to release demons.In his summation, Mr. Prevost told Justice Biben that even though Mr. Davenport had ingested PCP, he had still acted with a conscious objective to kill Ms. Hines.Mr. Davenport had been focused on the task at hand, Mr. Prevost said, knocking Ms. Hines to the ground, pinning her and stabbing her 14 times in the back before turning her over and continuing the onslaught.He knew it was a human body he held down and he knew it was EDena Hines, Mr. Prevost told the judge, adding, He must have perceived what the knife was inflicting, the blood, the struggle for life.After Justice Biben delivered the verdict, Mr. Davenport showed no visible emotion. Ms. Costanzo bent down and rubbed his shoulder before he was led from the room in handcuffs. Ms. Hiness mother, Deena Adair, left the courtroom a moment later, clutching the arm of a companion and silently declined to comment with a shake of the head.
