Our guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.NICOLE BYER at Upright Citizens Brigade Theater East Village (May 7, 10:30 p.m.). Cooking shows are a special kind of magic: Soothing shots of frosting being piped on immaculate cakes just do something for the psyche that isnt easily replicated. Nailed It!, a new Netflix series in which amateur chefs attempt to recreate confectionary masterpieces with disastrous results, is kind of the opposite of that, but its entertaining nonetheless. One of the main reasons is the shows host, Nicole Byer, whose infectious laugh and high-spirited energy could console even the least talented home baker. The event is sold out, but a standby line will start forming about a half-hour before showtime.212-366-9176, east.ucbtheatre.comFAKE THE NATION at Caveat (May 8, 7:30 p.m.). The comedian Negin Farsad, who wrote How to Make White People Laugh, hosts this weekly podcast that blends comedy and politics but skews heavily toward the laughs, with a round table in which she and her guests digest the latest events in the news cycle. This time the comedian John Fugelsang and the writer and humorist John Hodgman will join the discussion.212-228-2100, caveat.nycGRIST COMEDY EXTRAVAGANZA: A BENEFIT FOR A FUTURE THAT DOESNT SUCK at the Bell House (May 10, 8 p.m.). The news outlet Grist, which focuses on environmental issues like sustainability and global warming, hosts its fifth annual comedy benefit at the Bell House on Thursday night. The comedian Eugene Mirman, who voices the character of Gene Belcher in Bobs Burgers, is on the bill, along with Michelle Buteau, who hosts the Late Night Whenever podcast, and the comedy veterans Todd Barry and Janeane Garofalo.718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.comTHE GEORGE LUCAS TALK SHOW: STAR WARS HAPPY DAY at Upright Citizens Brigade Theater East Village (May 4, 11:59 p.m.). May the fourth be with you, indeed. To celebrate the Star Wars-themed day, the very funny Connor Ratliff has assembled an evening worthy of the fan-favorite franchise. Mr. Ratliff portrays a George Lucas who has retired from making movies to host his very own talk show. Attendees are encouraged to wear Star Wars costumes or dress as any character from a Ron Howard film or TV show, in honor of the fact that Mr. Howard is directing the upcoming Star Wars movie Solo. On top of it all, Mr. Ratliff has promised that each audience member will walk away with a prize involving Star Wars or Ron Howard.212-366-9176, east.ucbtheatre.comJOHN AND SCOTT at Upright Citizens Brigade Theater Hells Kitchen (May 9, 8 p.m.). Scott Adsit and John Lutz, perhaps best known for playing Pete and Lutz on 30 Rock, have teamed up for this night of unscripted performance. The two are comedy veterans with a long history that stems from the Chicago improv scene, so expect some next-level ad-lib.212-366-9176, hellskitchen.ucbtheatre.com
