The 33rd Rock & Roll Hall of Fame ceremony airs on HBO. And estranged brothers face off in Warrior.Whats on TV2018 ROCK & ROLL HALL OF FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY 8 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms. Bon Jovi, Nina Simone, Dire Straits and others enter the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in this 33rd annual celebration. Guests and presenters include Mary J. Blige; Brandon Flowers, of the band the Killers; and Lauryn Hill. Artists become eligible for induction 25 years after the release of their first recording. (Judas Priest, Kate Bush and Radiohead were among the first-time contenders who didnt make the cut this year.) Bon Jovi has been eligible since 2008 but was first nominated in 2011. In an interview with The New York Times, Jon Bon Jovi, the lead singer, called the recognition long overdue: I really want to say its about time.Whats StreamingWARRIOR (2011) on Amazon, Vudu and YouTube. As Brendan (Joel Edgerton), a science teacher and devoted father, struggles with seemingly insurmountable debt, he returns to his past in the mixed martial arts world to train for Sparta, a $5 million, winner-take-all tournament. Unbeknown to him, his estranged younger brother, Tommy (Tom Hardy), a former Marine, has returned to their hometown to fight in the same competition. Their inevitable showdown becomes more of a family affair when Tommy enlists the help of their recovering alcoholic father, Paddy (Nick Nolte). A. O. Scott made the film a Critics Pick in his review for The New York Times. The directors impressive technique  and all the grace and discipline of his excellent, hard-working cast  is mustered with a single, unambiguous goal in mind, he wrote. This movie wants to knock you out.THIRST STREET (2017) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. This dark comedy opens with Gina (Lindsay Burdge), an American flight attendant, enjoying a stable, loving relationship with her boyfriend, Paul (Damien Bonnard). When Paul commits suicide, Gina travels to Paris and grieves by hooking up with a sleazy bartender, Jrme (also portrayed by Mr. Bonnard). Things take a turn for the worse when Gina mistakes their one-night stand for something more, and gets caught up in a manic obsession. Thematically shallow but stylistically rich, Teo Bugbee wrote in The Times, Thirst Street is best enjoyed with a hint of its heroines willfully superficial vision.BLAME (2018) on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Quinn Shephard, who wrote and directed this teen drama, stars as Abigail, a troubled and reserved student whos met with taunts when she returns to her New Jersey high school after some time in a psych ward. Abigail receives more unwanted attention when a new teacher, Jeremy (Chris Messina), casts her in the role of Abigail in a student production of Arthur Millers The Crucible. Her role and close relationship with Jeremy provokes the ire of Melissa (Nadia Alexander), a popular bad girl who cant stand being pushed out of the spotlight.
