Our guide to the citys best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BAVARIAN RADIO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (May 4-5, 8 p.m.). This is one of those Friday nights in New York that poses an insoluble dilemma for music buffs: to hear this orchestra play Rossini, Prokofiev and Beethoven, or to listen to the London Symphony up a few blocks at Lincoln Center? Thankfully, this Munich orchestra  a wonder, with a dark, unified sound  has a Saturday program, too, and if you attend its Mahler Symphony No. 7, you can run an absurd, four-day, Midtown Mahler marathon (see the London Symphony listing below). Mariss Jansons is on the podium; Frank Peter Zimmermann is the violin soloist on Friday.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgDOVER STRING QUARTET at Washington Irving High School (May 5, 7:30 p.m.). An excellent young quartet at the bargain-basement prices of the Peoples Symphony  whats not to like? Theres Haydn, with one of the Opus 20 quartets, as well as Borodin and a Mozart string quintet, with Steven Tenenbom as the guest violist.212-586-4680, pscny.orgHEARTBEAT OPERA at the Baruch Performing Arts Center (May 4, 8 p.m., through May 13). This pioneering company radically reinterprets the classics, not just updating them through contemporary productions, but cutting, reorchestrating and rearranging them. In this run, it takes on two totemic works: Mozarts Don Giovanni, directed by Louisa Proske, and Beethovens Fidelio, directed by Ethan Heard, with Florestan portrayed as an imprisoned black activist.heartbeatopera.orgLONDON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (May 4 and 7, 8 p.m.; May 6, 3 p.m.). A triptych of late Mahler from Londons finest orchestra, all conducted by Simon Rattle. On Friday, its the Symphony No. 9; on Sunday, Das Lied von der Erde, with the vocal soloists Stuart Skelton and Christian Gerhaher; and on Monday, Deryck Cookes completion of the Symphony No. 10, a piece that has been associated with Mr. Rattle throughout his career. Its a pity that the audience at Lincoln Center wont hear the works paired with the symphonies performed this spring in England, including a new piece by Helen Grime and Tippetts The Rose Lake, but it seems churlish to quibble.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.orgTRISTAN PERICH at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine (May 9, 7:30 p.m.). This composer, best known for experimenting with one-bit technology, unveils Drift Multiply, for 50 violins and 50 one-bit speakers, under the direction of Doug Perkins. Also on the bill is a new work for subwoofers and voice by Lesley Flanigan.nyc.redbullmusicfestival.comDANIIL TRIFONOV at Zankel Hall (May 4, 7:30 p.m.). Try for returns to one of the most interesting and innovative programs that a major pianist has put forward at Carnegie in many years. The gambit: 10 works, each from a different decade of the 20th century. The results: Bergs Piano Sonata, Prokofievs Sarcasms, Bartoks Out of Doors, Coplands Piano Variations, a section of Messiaens Vingt regards sur lEnfant-Jsus, bits of Ligetis Musica ricercata, Stockhausens Klavierstck IX, Adamss China Gates, Coriglianos Fantasia on an Ostinato and, lastly, Adss Traced Overhead. Lordy, I hope there are tapes.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgLES VIOLINS DU ROY at Zankel Hall (May 5, 7:30 p.m.). A Quebecois period-instrument ensemble brings Bach and, with it, a star soloist. Isabelle Faust, whose Bach recordings on Harmonia Mundi are self-recommending, is the soloist in two violin concertos and the Concerto for Two Violins, virtuoso works surrounded here by new transcriptions of Bachs keyboard works, written by the conductor, Bernard Labadie.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org
