It is the 43rd of April, Year 2000, and Russias loneliest bureaucrat has just chosen a foreign countrys next head of state. Spain has a king, he exults in his diary. I am that king. His housekeeper is terrified; his colleagues, dumbfounded, recall him to his desk. But Ferdinand VIII has already scissored his civil-service uniform into a regal mantle.For weeks he has wandered St. Petersburg gnawed by resentment, wondering why perfidious women spurn him for generals and kammerjunkers; why, well into his 40s, he remains in the czarist equivalent of middle management; why even rotten little dogs view him with contempt. Like many proud and privileged failures, he succumbs to reactionary paranoia. Replace a few proper nouns and The Diary of a Madman, published in 1835, could pass for a Reddit rant from the Romanov alt-right: Its all ambition, and ambition is caused by a little blister under the tongue with a little worm in it the size of a pinhead, and its all the doing of some barber who lives in Gorokhovaya Street. I dont know what his name is; but its known for certain that he, together with some midwife, wants to spread Mohammedanism throughout the world.When people say that Americas absurdity has outpaced fiction, I refer them to the works of Nikolai Gogol, the Russian writer and playwright, who understood better than any artist since what perfect nonsense goes on in the world. Born in Ukraine  then a colony dubbed Little Russia  Gogol began writing stories while pursuing a short-lived government career in St. Petersburg. He started with Ukrainian folklore, and a sinister, fairy-tale lightness persists in his later, more renowned stories about the imperial capital. There are supernatural accents, but the underlying world is real, made strange by an infrared humor that finds cosmic anarchy in the smallest fissures of everyday life.Gogols first great success was the 1836 production of his stage comedy The Government Inspector. A satire about graft in an ill-managed provincial town, the play follows a panicked mayor and his cronies as they mistake an aristocratic traveler for the incognito official assigned to investigate their district. Fearing exile to Siberia, they lavish him with bribes and fawning attention  which the man, a penniless opportunist, is only too happy to accept. As when Dave Chappelles black white supremacist tears off his hood, the inspectors imposture leaves the town in chaos. Even Czar Nicholas laughed: The play was a hit. But it also touched off a roiling controversy, pitting reformists against conservatives who resented Gogols mockery of Russian officialdom. Spooked, he fled the country, writing much of his later work in Italy.Gogols plots can resemble financial crises: Confidence collapses and reality goes bankrupt. You could call the conceits Kafkaesque, if Gogol werent the better writer. In his most famous story, a preening St. Petersburg bachelor wakes up one morning without a nose. After days of searching, he finds it in church dressed like a high-ranking official. There can be no close relationship between us, it superciliously informs him. Judging by the buttons on your uniform, you must serve in a different department.The perpetual theme is societys dizzying, almost primordial vacuousness: In the beginning was the platitude, the meaningless title, the counterfeit check. Landowners and clerks succumb to madness and mendacity, recalling an American tradition that includes Melvilles Bartleby the Scrivener and The Confidence-Man, Poes monomaniacal hoaxes and crackpot cosmology, Twains stories The Mysterious Stranger and The Million Pound Bank Note. Gogol was a contemporary of these writers, but his fiction speaks even more to our growing disenchantment with their ambivalent bequest.Twilight has fallen on the venerable American trickster, who in our Trumpian afterworld of alternative facts has come to seem more sordid than subversive. Fictional characters are not exempt from the re-evaluation: Take Tom Sawyer, who in Robert Coovers recent novel Huck Out West sours from boyish, winsome cheat to unfeeling frontier lawyer, expropriating the indigenous nations of the Great Plains. Gogol, fabulist of an empire that gave us the phrase Potemkin village, feels almost predestined to illuminate this particular moment, the collective hangover of larceny losing its luster.When Pavel Ivanovich Chichikov drives his carriage into the provincial town of N., he plans to carry out the most macabre heist in literature. He wants to buy dead souls, a word that in czarist Russia referred not only to immortal spirits but also to serfs. A grim speculator in human property, Pavel Ivanovich plans to buy and then mortgage peasants whose deaths have not yet been registered by the census. His scheme is the foundation of Gogols masterpiece, a comic novel that he conceived as the cornerstone of a national epic.Dead Souls was intended as the Inferno in a Divine Comedy of the Slavs, clearing the way for a great Russian renaissance by cleansing the national spirit with lofty ecstatic laughter. No ordinary hero could embody this historic redemption. Complaining that too many writers gave impossible pictures of inhuman ideals, Gogol wrote that it was time finally to give the poor virtuous man a rest and hitch up a scoundrel.Gluttony is to Chichikov as anger is to Achilles: the ethic of his epic. He arrives at the nameless towns inn with a roast chicken wrapped in blue paper, which a servant carries in after him like a bridal train. Cabbage, brains, pickles and puff pastry follow in the dining room, dished out by a timid floor boy who also furnishes a menu of marks: local grandees with large estates and many serfs. The next morning, he rouses his coachman and embarks.A disaster capitalist avant la lettre, Chichikov circles the province like a hungry buzzard. He scours the papers for news of fire, famine or epidemic  anything that might yield a bumper crop of souls in legal limbo. His spree has an almost gustatory zest; as one gentleman exclaims amid tense negotiations, Really, for you a human soul is the same as a stewed turnip.If the archetypal trickster is an operator, his game a stylish arithmetic of self-multiplication, Chichikov is more like a human zero. Depending on the situation, he can act as flatterer, sober man of business, pious patriot, bon vivant or bully. A man without qualities, he congeals on the first page from a fog of narratorial ambivalence: In the britzka [carriage] sat a gentleman, not handsome, but also not bad-looking, neither too fat nor too thin; you could not have said he was old, yet neither was he all that young. Vladimir Nabokovs book on Gogol describes the character more pithily: He is a soap bubble blown by the devil.The brilliance of Gogols humor is the way it seizes not on excess but on emptiness. There are, to be sure, the usual types of social satire. Chichikov does business with a frightened widow; a miserly hoarder who picks through his own serfs garbage; a violent, egotistic gambling addict; a kissy young couple who read English Romantic poetry while their estate goes to ruin. Wrath, sloth, cowardice and pride all have seats at Dead Soulss picaresque buffet. But animating them is a force that often eludes the caricaturists pen: quiet, patient, determined and decent greed.Chichikov does have one definitive feature: He is an acquirer. The most cherished item in his possession is a writing box where he keeps the ledger of his spectral peasants. Opening it in what is perhaps his only moment of passion, he rhapsodically daydreams about their lives and deaths, revealing a narrative impulse that also colors his back story. Chichikov was once an official in the customs department, so thorough that his superiors considered him a devil, not a man: He found things in wheels, shafts, horses ears and all sorts of other places where no author would even dream of going, and where no one but customs officials are allowed to go.Or at least no author but Gogol. He cleverly implies that his own sensibility  playful, minutely observant, ticklishly alert to lifes terrible, stupendous mire of trivia  is exactly whats needed to detect a swindler like Chichikov. His macabre enterprise, so dependent on the landowners self-interested incuriosity, disintegrates under Gogols exuberant scrutiny. His metaphors evolve so ceaselessly as to beget miniature scenes: If the face of a passer-by resembles a Moldavian gourd, then before the sentence is out, that gourd has been cut and strung into a balalaika, played by a snappy 20-year-old lad for an audience of whitenecked lasses. Or, at a party of provincial bigwigs, men in black tie bustle about as flies dart about a gleaming white sugar loaf in the hot summertime of July. Humor, like a flys multifaceted eye, grants second sight.The townspeople, in contrast, are blinded by melodrama. When they discover Chichikovs doings, they cannot believe the pettiness of his motivation, and decide there must be some more profound reason for his activities. They speculate that he might be a kidnapper after the governors daughter, or even the escaped Napoleon in disguise  anything but an inconspicuous crook with nothing but money in mind. Like the millions of Americans who prefer lurid conspiracy theories to the boring details of corruption and greed, they fail to imagine his lack of imagination; or, as Gogol admonishes his readers, You would prefer not to see human poverty revealed!Ive started seeing Chichikov everywhere. He is named in the Panama and Paradise Papers; he sponsored the Republican tax legislation and visited Puerto Rico to impose austerity and award government contracts to the profiteering electricians of Whitefish, Mont. When Ben Carson spent $31,000 on an office dining set while slashing funds for public housing, there was Chichikov, who also planned the Fyre music festival and signed Jared Kushners security clearance.Chichikov is not only in government: The squeaking wheels of his carriage are audible wherever corrupt nonentities pawn human lives for petty comforts. Picturing him as he races along in his britzka, devilishly counting the souls on his unreal estate, I cant help imagining the racist Wells Fargo loan officers who pushed subprime mortgages on black homeowners in Baltimore. Alluding to the banks logo, they told reporters that selling ghetto loans was like riding the stagecoach from hell.Yet more Chichikovian is April Parks, a Nevada court guardian (and superficially respectable citizen) who colluded with a network of doctors and judges to enserf more than 100 elderly people. As The New Yorkers Rachel Aviv reported, Parks had these seniors declared incompetent, assumed guardianship, warehoused them in low-grade nursing facilities and liquidated their estates against family members objections. The crowning spoil of her spree was a Pontiac convertible with the license plate CRTGRDN.Can Satire Save the Republic? The Atlantic asked on its cover last May. Gogol wondered if humor could save the Russian soul. He died before publishing his Divine Comedys Purgatorio and Paradiso, soured into a religious zealot who renounced fiction and burned his unfinished work. But the products of his grotesque imagination, which fixed on anything smelly, phony, hollow, haphazard, askance or asymmetrical, remain testaments to humors revelatory power. Laughter is a form of vigilance, and the evil it repels doesnt always descend, shouting, on a golden escalator. Sometimes it is a gentleman visitor, neither too fat nor too thin, hungry for a stewed turnip and an innocent name.
