Happy Friday! Yes, its still sweaty.It was a scene out of New Yorks grimy industrial age: thick black smoke billowing out of an old apartment building uptown.Except, we saw it last month.And suddenly, as with our citys water towers and ghost signs, once we were aware of the smoke, we started to spot it everywhere.After learning that this week is Air Quality Awareness Week, we decided to ask around for the cause  and possible damage  of these sinister-looking plumes.The culprit, we found, was heating oil.In New York City, thousands of buildings still rely on large boilers that burn oil to keep apartments warm.The pollution spewed from these boilers is one of the largest contributors to adverse air quality in our city, along with motor vehicles, according to the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.And its dangerous: Air pollution kills an average of 2,000 New Yorkers a year.But since 2011, the city has forced 5,300 buildings to replace the dirtiest (and cheapest) heating oil, No. 6, with No. 4 oil, which is slightly less harmful. Buildings regulated by the health department no longer use No. 6 oil, were told, although some smaller buildings in the city may still burn it.Smoke that you see around town is probably not the nastier oil, but most likely from a boiler that was turned on after a long rest or was in need of repair, said Edward Timbers, the director of communications at the city Department of Environmental Protection. (Either way, if you see smoke you should call 311, Mr. Timbers said.)We were left curious about the citys future pollution problems, so we asked for a forecast.This spring looks to be particularly tough on our lungs, said John Kent, an air pollution meteorologist at the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. The chilly April delayed the sprouting of leaves, which are able to grab ground-level ozone and destroy it.And the current record-breaking heat is not helping.Ground-level ozone forms, Mr. Kent said, when pollutants in the air react with sunlight and high temperatures. Our current warm spell has already triggered two days of air quality health advisories.The verdict is still out on today, but with afternoon or evening showers and sun-blocking clouds in the forecast, theres a good chance our lungs will catch a breather. This weekend temperatures will drop into the high 60s, and thunderstorms should keep ozone in check.Heres what else is happening:In the News In an effort to curb fatal overdoses, New York City intends to create supervised sites where drug users can inject their narcotics. [New York Times] Airbnb is making it easy for tourists to rent apartments in the popular sections of Manhattan and Brooklyn, but its driving up the cost of rent for residents. [New York Times] Mayor Bill de Blasio is doubling down on his investment in the citys ferry service, committing an additional $300 million after finding that the demand was higher than expected. [New York Times] Lawyers promised some undocumented immigrants green cards and they were put into deportation proceedings instead. Now, they have a filed a lawsuit. [New York Times] A judge ruled that the condominium on the Upper West Side bearing President Trumps name on the building could vote to take it down without fear of a lawsuit. [New York Times] The driver who struck and killed two children in Brooklyn has been charged with involuntary manslaughter. [New York Times] William J. Larkin Jr., the 90-year-old Republican state senator, announced his plan to retire. [New York Times] A Yale student who was accused of sexually assaulting a fellow student was found not guilty. [New York Times] A city investigation found that the Department of Corrections failed to properly screen job applicants before hiring them. [New York Times] A deal has been reached to sell the historic Plaza Hotel for $600 million. [New York Times] The Sunnyside Yard project, a plan to install homes, schools and open public space above the 180 acres of rail yard in Queens, is under way. [The Queens Tribune] The climate change exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History is getting redone, but the museum has assured the public that its conservative donors will not influence it. [WNYC] Residents of Crown Heights, where Saheed Vassell was shot and killed by the police about a month ago, are taking to the streets to demand transparency from the police and more information on the shooting. [Bklyner] Todays Metropolitan Diary: Stopped at the Tollbooth For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Coming Up Today Janes Walk hosts more than 200 walking tours inspired by the urban activist Jane Jacobs across the city, through Sunday. [Free] The Dusty Film and Animation Festival screens more than 100 films by students of the School of Visual Arts at the SVA Theater in Chelsea. Various times. [Free] Pedal over to the bicycle exhibits at Bike Expo New York at Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in Red Hook. 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. [Free] May the Fourth be with you. Debate the science of Star Wars at Caveat on the Lower East Side. 6 p.m. [Free] An evening of Egyptian music at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 8 p.m. [$16] Yankees host Indians, 7:05 p.m. (WPIX). Mets host Rockies, 7:10 p.m. (SNY). Watch The New York Times Close Up, featuring The Timess Sara Krulwich, the City Council speaker Corey Johnson and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV. Alternate-side parking remains in effect until May 10. Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.The WeekendSaturday  Root for New Yorks Audible at a Kentucky Derby Party at Bergn Beer Hall in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Derby starts at 7:30 a.m. [Free] Join the family-friendly art competition, Boardwalk Barrels of Fun, on the Coney Island Boardwalk at West 104th Street in Brooklyn. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. [Free] Pick up free vegetables, plants and growing tips at the GreenThumb Plant Starts Distribution at locations in the Bronx and Brooklyn. 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. [Free] Sample Bosnian kebabs, Polish pierogies and Caribbean cuisine on a Noshwalk beginning at the El Dorado Restaurant in Ridgewood, Queens. Noon. [$59] An afternoon of classical music at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts near Lincoln Center. 2:30 p.m. [Free] Yankees host Indians, 1:05 p.m. (YES). New York Red Bulls host New York City F.C., 1:55 p.m. (ESPN). Mets host Rockies, 7:10 p.m. (SNY).Sunday  Explore the Frieze Art Fair on Randalls Island. 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. [$48] Tour some of the sacred sights of Queens beginning at the Hindu Temple Society of North America in Flushing. 11 a.m. [Free] Paddle out into the lakes of Clove Lakes Park and look for great blue herons in Staten Island. 11 a.m. [Free] Cast a line and fish in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. Noon. [Free] Enjoy Irish music and dance at the Irish Dance Festival in Riverside Park. 1 p.m. [Free] Yankees host Indians, 1:05 p.m. (YES). Mets host Rockies, 1:10 p.m. (SNY). For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.And Finally...Call it extreme sightseeing.The Great Saunter, a circumnavigation of the borough of Manhattan  passing 19 bridges, 20 parks and too many landmarks to count  kicks off tomorrow morning.The 32-mile walk was founded more than 30 years ago by the author and conservationist Cy A. Adler to raise awareness about our citys green spaces.If youre planning on making the trip, Mr. Adler recommends bringing water, extra socks and Vaseline.In the past, our colleague David Allan did his own version of the saunter, and added a few items to that list, including: sunscreen, Band-Aids for blisters, a camera, snacks, a smartphone for occasional geographic assists (and Twitter posts if you are so inclined) and a device loaded with music and podcasts to take your mind off your muscles.(Fair warning: Mr. Allan said it gave him sore legs for a week.)The walk begins and ends at Fraunces Tavern in Lower Manhattan. Kickoff is at 7:30 a.m.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.
