The sailors dont show up for Fleet Week until the end of the month, but right now weve got the shrinks. Yes, the American Psychiatric Association is in town; you may have noticed the gangs of tweedy, chin-stroking men and women wandering the side streets in search of discounted Eames lounge chairs.If they are drama minded, they already know about Ain Gordons 217 Boxes of Dr. Henry Anonymous, which opened on Thursday at the Baryshnikov Arts Center in conjunction with their 2018 annual meeting. It is, after all, a play about a psychiatrist  and not only that, but a psychiatrist who made history at an earlier annual meeting, in Dallas.It was there, in 1972, that Dr. John Fryer, wearing a joke-store rubber mask and an oversized tuxedo, with his voice altered through a distorting microphone to disguise his identity, began a brief speech to his colleagues by saying, I am a homosexual. A year later, the organizations pernicious diagnosis of homosexuality as a mental disorder  a diagnosis that had harmed innumerable men and women, and made Fryer fear that using his own name would ruin him  was stricken from the psychiatric bible.Mr. Gordons play, which he also directed, does not try to explain how things moved so fast. (Much more was involved than Fryers testimony.) Nor is it the kind of self-congratulatory uplift you might expect to find on the program at a convention. Rather, 217 Boxes is an important work of documentary theater about a man who is a footnote to gay history, as well as a powerfully moving abstract of the decades of suffering and change that his life and attachments encompassed.I use the word abstract advisedly. Mr. Gordon is a three-time Obie award winner who often focuses on the also pictured characters at the edge of photographs and fame. Even within that aesthetic, 217 Boxes is unusually indirect and conceptual. Fryer himself does not appear in this play named for him except in projections behind the set, and mostly in the hideous disguise that paradoxically brought him his moment of notoriety.Instead of Fryer what we mostly see are the gray, flip-top archival boxes from which the play draws its title. Arranged in piles and lanes to form a kind of graveyard, they represent similar boxes housed at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, which acquired Fryers papers upon his death in 2003. There, as part of a project called An Artist Embedded, Mr. Gordon immersed himself in Fryers notes, letters, diaries and other documents, eventually extracting three characters from them: three lives lived at tangents to Fryers that together triangulated him and his times.Footnotes to a footnote, they nevertheless become, in a series of beautifully shaped 25-minute monologues, avatars of gayness in America during the whole of the 20th century. This even though only the first is gay: Alfred A. Gross, a high-swish pre-Stonewall homosexual (he was born in 1895) who sought Fryers professional help in assisting men like himself when they got into trouble with the law.A self-described warrior for his people (Well, warrior behind the drapes), Gross (Derek Lucci) attests to the terrible oppression of the closet but also to its compensations: May I be a little understood for reveling in how that oppression did also make me spectacular? he asks. Mr. Lucci gives Gross immense dignity without shrinking at all from his flamboyance; he italicizes italics and turns sibilance into music.The second ghost from the archives is Katherine M. Luder, who, starting at age 67 and continuing until her death 24 years later, was Fryers secretary and something more. (The doctor and myself were a little, intensely, utterly platonically, very married, she says with typical tartness. Ha, chew on that.) Luder recapitulates in her relationship with Fryer the arc of the worlds growing acknowledgment, toleration and embrace of gay people, or at least a quicker form of it.She also connects the dots to feminism, ageism and, most powerfully, AIDS, which she came to comprehend as Fryers young patients showed up for appointments in ever more ill-fitting clothes. In what is perhaps the plays highlight, Luder, played by Laura Esterman, a New York stage treasure who has never been better, memorializes those patients, whose names she of course cant divulge, in a way that is no less concrete for being totally abstract.Thats the plays method, too, coming at us with its cool cred thrust out like a business card but still, when you shake its hand, warm to the touch. By the final monologue, in which Ken Marks plays Fryers father, Ercel, Mr. Gordon risks even sentimentality. In reality, Ercel died, at home in Kentucky, two years before his sons momentous speech; its the play that gives him posthumous knowledge of it. And this too: Though he still has trouble saying the word homosexual, Ercel wants us to know he is proud that he signed all nine letters he wrote to his son  theyre in the boxes  Love, Daddy.From where I sat among the psychiatrists, that bit of schmaltz, beautifully tempered in Mr. Markss performance, paid off.It pays off because 217 Boxes tells us something real about the world whether or not its version of Fryers colleagues and family is as accurate as the archive from which their stories are drawn. Liberation, the play demonstrates, is not just necessary and beneficial to the oppressed but also to society as a whole. This is the greatest loss, our honest humanity, Fryer said on that hot Dallas day in 1972, and that loss leads all those others around us to lose that little bit of their humanity as well.That he said this while sweating behind a rubber mask does not make it any less true. And that 217 Boxes turns it into something moving does not make it any less fine.
