Joanne Sue-Kyung Kim and Ayendy Jos Bonifacio were married May 2 by Judge Cynthia L. Ebner at the Franklin County Probate Court in Columbus, Ohio.The couple met at Ohio State, where the bride received both a masters degree and a Ph.D. in English, and the groom a masters degree in English; he is also pursuing a Ph.D. in the subject.Ms. Kim, 31, is known as Joey. She graduated from John Carroll University in University Heights, Ohio. She is a daughter of Dr. Jinkyung Kim and Dr. Hyo Kim of Beachwood, Ohio. The brides father, a doctor of physical medicine and rehabilitation, owns Quantum Physical Medicine Institute in Beachwood and Warren, Ohio. Her mother, a psychiatrist, is retired.Mr. Bonifacio, also 31, is the author of Dique Dominican (Floricanto Press and Berkeley Press, 2017), a memoir about growing up in East New York, Brooklyn. He graduated from Hunter College.He is a son of Ana Luz Peralta of East New York and Jos Julian Bonifacio of Lindenhurst, N.Y. The grooms mother is a housekeeper and a singer of Christian music. His father owns and operates a taxi service in Lindenhurst.The couple became study partners at Ohio State in the fall of 2013 and were dating by the end of the school year. They found solidarity in their love of 19th-century poets and their experiences as children in immigrant families. For each, English, their first true love, was a second language.But in May 2015, the bride suffered a traumatic brain injury while skateboarding, and for 11 days the groom sat at her side in the hospital, unsure of their future. I couldnt believe this was happening to us, Mr. Bonifacio said. I was afraid of losing my best friend. I didnt know whether or not she would survive, and if she did, if she would know who I was, what we were.After her discharge, they tackled outpatient therapy and rehabilitation together and worked to get her doctoral studies back on track.By January 2016, she had almost fully recovered and, for the first time since the accident, they returned to the skate park. There, they wrote poetry together and reflected on the terror, awe and, finally, sublime relief they had felt in the past months. I didnt know how to exist in a world that wasnt trying to kill me, she said.But then, when the groom knelt on one knee and proposed, she was overwhelmed with a sense of newness and joy. He turned a moment of trauma and suffering into a lifelong promise of love and resilience.
