Spring is the season when many high school seniors fret, waiting anxiously to hear whether they have been accepted to college.Jasmine E. Harrison, a 17-year-old senior at The Academy at Smith in Greensboro, N.C., was no different. And hear she did  more than 100 times.Ms. Harrison was accepted to 113 colleges and universities out of the 115 to which she had applied. The scholarship offers she received totaled more than $4 million, according to Ms. Harrison and her mother, who kept track of the financial offers on an Excel spreadsheet.At first I could not believe it, but then I was like, Wow. I felt honored, Ms. Harrison said.She is among the millions of high school students who use online college application tools that make it easy to apply to multiple institutions at once. Most use the tools, like the Common Application, to pitch their academic credentials to between four and 20 schools.But Ms. Harrison, an exceptional student with a 4.0 grade point average, said that once she started to get acceptance letters and financial offers, she grew more confident. So she kept applying to more colleges. I felt if I can get into all of these, she said, what else can I get in?It was overwhelming at first because there were so many options, she said. I could go anywhere, and discover who I am.She began to reach out to colleges farther from home  including ones in Florida, South Carolina, Maryland and Colorado.Ms. Harrison also used the Common Black College Application, which put her academic record into the sights of 53 of the countrys historically black colleges and universities. Other applications were done individually, helped by low fees during North Carolinas free college application week.For all the geography her applications covered, in the end Ms. Harrison decided to stay close to home. She chose Bennett College in Greensboro, North Carolinas third-largest city, with a population of more than 250,000. Her sister attended the small historically black college for women, and it offered Ms. Harrison a full scholarship covering the $28,000 annual cost to attend, said its president, Phyllis Worthy Dawkins.In the beginning, she said, Lets apply to all of them in Florida, said Bravena M. Armstrong, Ms. Harrisons mother. At the end, she wanted to stay nearby.Only two universities  the University of South Carolina and Seton Hall University  turned Ms. Harrison down.She and her mother started the application process in September and worked through the end of the year, poring over templates, gathering recommendations and lining up transcripts. They worked late, sometimes against a backdrop of gospel music, until Ms. Armstrong would leave to work the night shift at the post office, she recalled.Ms. Armstrong said Ms. Harrison notified admissions officers quickly when she turned down a spot so that it could be given to another student.Most students give their final decision to a college by May 1. Ms. Harrisons accomplishments were reported that day by WFMY, a local television station.The Higher Education Research Institute says that 35 percent of first-time freshmen applied to seven or more colleges for the 2016 academic cycle. In 1990, just 9 percent of aspiring freshmen applied to that many.David Hawkins, an executive director at the National Association for College Admission Counseling, said that Ms. Harrisons outreach was remarkable. She is certainly an outlier when it comes to what we typically see, he said.Counselors try to encourage students to focus on quality rather than quantity, he added. It is logical to try to hedge your bets to apply to as many institutions as possible, he said. Ultimately, you can only use one of them, and given the cost and the effort, it better be a good fit for you.Social media has amplified students who have been particularly successful at getting into college. This spring, a widely shared video showed Micheal Brown, 17, a senior at Lamar High School in Houston, opening his acceptance notifications. He got into all 20 highly selective colleges he applied to, and each offered him a full ride through a combination of merit- and financial-based scholarships and grants. He had a 4.68 grade point average and high test scores.Ms. Harrison said she wanted to major in biology and work as a neonatal intensive care unit nurse, inspired by the women who cared for one of her brothers, Zayden, in such a unit.Terri Y. Fletcher, Ms. Harrisons English teacher, said she had written multiple recommendations for her. She said that Ms. Harrison would often visit her office to read works by Ntozake Shange and Maya Angelou just for fun.Ms. Harrison was a curious scholar and voracious reader, Ms. Fletcher said. She does not put any limitations on anything.
