THE SPARSHOLT AFFAIR By Alan Hollinghurst 417 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $28.95.Alan Hollinghursts new novel is a portrait of a man who isnt there. Its not that David Sparsholt doesnt appear in the novel that bears his name. On the contrary, were continually getting glimpses of him and hearing tantalizing rumors. Over the course of a story that spans 70 years and three generations, we learn about Sparsholts heroic career as a pilot during World War II, his successful business  and then, with a shock, about the political sex scandal, the Sparsholt Affair, that made him a household name.Yet the man himself always remains at a distance. Indeed, he initially appears as a literal shadow. The year is 1940, and Oxford is largely empty  most of the male students have been drafted, or are about to be  when a small group of friends happen to spy David in his room across the quad: The source of the shadow moved slowly into view, a figure in a gleaming singlet, steadily lifting and lowering a pair of hand-weights. At first, no one knows the young Adoniss name, but his physique alone is enough to make one of the group, Evert Dax, fall madly in love with him. Another, Peter Coyle, manages to persuade Sparsholt to sit for a portrait, a nude chalk sketch. And a third, Freddie Green  who is the narrator of this section of the novel  spends a long night during the Blitz on the roof of the college with Sparsholt, watching for enemy bombers.In their tiny undergraduate world, these reverberations of feeling constitute a major event  a Sparsholt affair of its own, before the later, public one is even imaginable. This is the subject of the novels opening section, a self-contained drama rich with seduction, betrayal and exploitation. Peter and Evert maneuver fiercely for Davids affections, regardless of the fact that he has a fiance; and one of them gets what he wants, for a price. Still, Freddie supposes the whole thing will soon be forgotten: It had already assumed its true scale, something fleeting, and entirely personal, too hidden to rate even a footnote in the history of its time. I doubt anyone has spoken a word of it till now.But a writer, according to Henry James, should be one of those on whom nothing is lost; and Hollinghurst, a very Jamesian writer, doesnt allow this affair to slip into oblivion. Instead, it turns out to be the overture in a long and complex saga  five substantial episodes that take us, in long leaps, from the Blitz to the age of smartphones. Structurally, this makes The Sparsholt Affair very similar to Hollinghursts previous novel, The Strangers Child, which dealt with the life and literary afterlife of an English poet who died in World War I.Readers of that book  or of Hollinghursts earlier The Line of Beauty, which won the Man Booker Prize  will find much that is familiar here, stylistically and thematically. As always, Hollinghurst writes classically beautiful prose, which like Jamess is constantly intelligent, alert and mobile. Though he is a wonderful noticer and describer  of skies, paintings, bodies  it is his party scenes that are most famous, and justly so. Few writers are so good at capturing the currents of intention and emotion that circulate in a crowded room.ImageThere is something particularly English about this talent, and it can produce a very English comedy of polite noncommunication. In one scene, a group of guests at a party  actually, at the wake of Freddie Green, who has died half a century after we first met him  are standing outside as it starts to rain. Its hardly raining at all, one says, and another agrees, Its quite nice to be out, isnt it; and then, with a sudden collective coming to their senses everyone in the garden walked, almost ran, back into the house. To understand what people really want, Hollinghurst suggests, you have to ignore what they say and pay attention to what they do  especially when it comes to sex.The novels second section leaps forward 20 years, and the focus shifts to Johnny Sparsholt, the son of David, whose life we will follow for the remainder of the book. It is the 1960s, and David is a prosperous middle-aged man, a war hero with a thriving business. The reader, who knows more about Johnnys father than he does himself, can pick up on the sexual undertones of Davids friendship with Clifford Haxby, a mysteriously intimate presence in their lives.But Johnny notices nothing, or almost nothing; he is too deeply involved in his own hopeless love for his French friend, Bastien. The previous summer, the two boys had a passionate, exploratory affair. But this summer Bastien is visiting Johnny in Cornwall, and its plain that he is now attracted to women  including Johnnys own mother. Being gay is, in a quite direct sense, Johnnys legacy; but its a legacy he at first doesnt know how to deal with. Indeed, at this stage of the story, gay sex was still a crime in Britain. Thats why, when David Sparsholt and Clifford Haxby are exposed as having a sexual relationship with a member of Parliament, it becomes a national scandal that sends David to prison.All of this, however, takes place off the novels stage. We dont learn about it until the third section, when Johnny, now a longhaired painter in his early 20s, comes to London to begin his career. Every time he introduces himself, we see people do a double take; some are kindly reticent, others blatantly curious. But no one can avoid associating the name with gayness  which sets Johnny a peculiar kind of challenge. How can he reclaim homosexuality from what it was to his father  something secretive, guilty, deniable  and lead a different kind of gay life?As it turns out, that is precisely what Johnny manages to do, and the rest of the novel tells a fundamentally happy story. The legacy he couldnt receive directly from his father is passed down to him instead by a group of gay writers and artists who take him on as a protg  a group that includes Evert Dax, his fathers lover from long ago. Everts London house, in Cranley Gardens, becomes Johnnys new home, the place where he forges a different kind of family, based on affinity rather than blood. The times allow him possibilities his father could never have dreamed of, and Hollinghurst  who belongs to the same generation as Johnny  writes with subtlety and sympathy about all the stages of his progress, from youthful exploration to middle-aged partnership to the rekindling of desire late in life.As the story moves forward in time, Hollinghurst achieves the kind of symphonic effect we normally associate with much longer books, like Prousts In Search of Lost Time or Anthony Powells A Dance to the Music of Time. People we first met as students in the 1940s return in new guises: A writer is famous, then forgotten, then the subject of scholarly revival; the teenage David turns into a father, then a grandfather. The effect is moving, and Hollinghurst writes with a wisdom and understanding only available to an experienced writer working with his favorite themes. By the end of the novel, the mystery of David Sparsholt hasnt quite been solved, but it has served its purpose  as the absent center of a beautiful and complex design.
