Vera MolnrThrough May 12. Senior & Shopmaker, 210 11th Avenue, eighth floor, Manhattan; 212-213-6767, seniorandshopmaker.com.In 1960, fed up with the individualistic gestural painting that was then fashionable in Paris, some young Parisian artists formed a collective  later called the Groupe de Recherche dArt Visuel, or Visual Art Research Group  that favored science, kinetics and collaborative creation. That influential set included Franois Morellet, whose strong retrospective continues at Dia:Chelsea through June 2; Julio Le Parc, who exhibited at the Prez Art Museum Miami in 2016; and the Hungarian-born Vera Molnr, now 94. This second exhibition of her work at Senior & Shopmaker reintroduces New Yorkers to her historically significant geometric abstraction, above all her pioneering efforts with early computers.Early works on paper here  such as a pair of collages from 1961 that feature notched rectangles of pure red  disclose the influence of Russian Suprematism on Ms. Molnrs nonobjective art. By 1968, having learned to program in the computer languages Fortran and Basic, she was writing scripts that could create a grid with random vertical, horizontal and variously angled diagonal lines, as well as blank spaces. She outputted these thickets of oscillating, stuttering strokes to a plotter, whose pen could move only along X and Y axes; look closely and you can see the janky diagonals. Ms. Molnr thought of these as drawings, not prints, and therefore only a single edition exists of each computer work.Later, she used the computer to draw airier compositions with diagonals; wobbly, concentric squares; and arrays of black bands that gently rise and fall. Even when not working with technology, Ms. Molnr approached her art algorithmically: In a large 1971 drawing, she has executed by hand the same random distribution of angled strokes that the computer could produce unthinkingly.The density of Ms. Molnrs drawings, whether executed by pen or plotter, embodies a pleasure in repetition and exactitude that feels closer to the humanistic minimalism of Agnes Martin and Nasreen Mohamedi than to Pariss groovy-for-groovys-sake Op and Kinetic art. They are also a salutary reminder of the central role that women have long played in computer programming, from Ada Lovelace to todays post-internet experimenters.JASON FARAGOMarcus WeberThrough May 19. Thomas Erben Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, fourth floor, Manhattan; 212-645-8701, thomaserben.com.Whats great about George Herrimans much admired early-20th-century comic strip Krazy Kat is its nearly unlimited scope for self-awareness. A stripped-down but playfully catholic style  combined with a sturdy, repetitive narrative frame  meant that Herriman could wink at the reader as often as he wanted, without losing his footing or boxing himself in.In the strip that the German painter Marcus Weber meticulously reproduces in Kwee Mokks (2018), Ignatz Mouse explains to Krazy that the kwee mokks all ova (queer marks all over) an old newspaper are writing, and then the two get into trouble with the papers severely out-of-date weather forecast. It is one of the sharpest of the 16 excellent canvases that make up this exhibition at Thomas Erben Gallery, Mr. Webers first American solo show.Held in the hands of a giant blue stick figure with a white head, the strip becomes an extraordinarily mordant comment on the state of painting. But in five small, colorful portraits of pedestrians on the Berlin street where Mr. Weber keeps his studio, his version of Herrimans strategic inconsistency becomes a surprisingly effective way of mimicking the irreducibility of real life.In A-Str. 13 (2009), the flat orange stripes on a building wall, the green impasto of a womans head scarf and the dark, cartoony line of her profile are all different types of painting; their clash is the perfect visual equivalent of street noise. In canvases like V-Park (2011), which depicts two cyclists on a rainbow bridge and a masked woman presiding over a gridlike-barbecue behind candy-colored chickadees, stylistic chaos becomes a joyful end in itself.WILL HEINRICHCary LeibowitzThrough May 13. Invisible-Exports, 89 Eldridge Street, Manhattan; invisible-exports.com.The premise of so-called identity art is that it makes you feel good about embracing your repressed, oppressed or marginal condition. Cary Leibowitz tweaks this approach in I need to grow up and be taken seriously said the clown at the urinal, his new exhibition at Invisible-Exports, in which he celebrates feeling good about feeling bad about himself. The text on one painting, Ugh hes crying again, pretty much sums up Mr. Leibowitzs ethos.Bad taste is his primary medium. The presentation starts at the edges of the gallery with a classic red-and-white gingham pattern covering the floor. Tables at the center are crammed with mass-produced ceramic tchotchkes  garden gnomes, unicorns, vessels with chubby human feet  printed with half-literate scrawling, such as, ok ur gay but what have you done lately. One vase says, half empty. Another reads, 11th place [expletive] loser award. (Mr. Leibowitz is a very uppercase-optional artist.) Photographs of men in military uniforms or at macho male gatherings bear captions like Golden Girls Fan Club or The Bette Davis Eyes Longjohns Weekend, turning normative male gatherings into something salaciously camp.Throughout the show, Mr. Leibowitz plays sleight of hand with art, history and identity, suggesting that you use whatever materials are at hand, from self-deprecation to cheap ceramics. He describes himself as a loser  and yet hes a gallery-represented artist with a second career in managing art auction houses. In this context, marginality and power are complicated. In true borscht belt fashion, Mr. Leibowitz wickedly turns the tables, advising that when current politics and the odds are stacked against you, you should make fun of the whole thing.MARTHA SCHWENDENERBeryl KorotThrough May 20. Bitforms, 131 Allen Street, Manhattan; 212-366-6939, bitforms.com.Beryl Korot had a breakthrough in the 1970s. While working in print, video and weaving, she realized that all these mediums encode information in lines. This inspired an interest in how lines could be built up to create information, she said in a video for Art 21. In 1980, she started weaving her own canvases and devising a coded language based on their structure. It uses squares on a grid to symbolize the letters of the English alphabet. A key to it opens her new exhibition, A Coded Language, at the gallery Bitforms The key is legible but not readily comprehensible. It intimates that language can have meaning even when its not understood.On her first hand-woven canvases, Babel 1 and Babel 2 (both 1980), Ms. Korot has painted the biblical story of the Tower of Babel in her code. The thin red-and-black characters of Babel 1 look as if they belong to a non-Western language, while the symbols in Babel 2 are more rectangular and blocky, like Morse code. Both are in rows contained in columns (or towers), suggesting a form that connects all written communication, despite the dispersion that concludes the Babel story.The paintings Anordnung: Clearly Visible/Strongly Sewn (1985) and A = Girl (1986) recall ancient pages of Scripture, with a calligraphic version of Ms. Korots language and weathered surfaces layered with marks. Each contains the silhouette of a girl derived from a photograph of Jews on train tracks during the Holocaust. The child seems to be a time traveler roaming the canvases in search of answers.In the video Etty (2009-10), snippets of text from the diaries of Etty Hillesum, a Dutch Jewish writer who died at Auschwitz, scroll over a lattice pattern and images of storms. Hillesum created her own code to circumvent the Nazis, so while her words are intelligible, they also have a missing, second meaning. We are permitted to send telegrams but forbidden to be specific, she writes  an eerie precedent for Ms. Korots work.JILLIAN STEINHAUER
