Good morning. Heres what you ought to cook today, no question, so you can dial in the recipe in advance of Mothers Day: David Taniss new recipe for savory brioche pudding (above). Its a riot of delicate, custardy salt-sweetness, almost quiche-like  if quiche came in clouds.Cook that right now, then cook it again on the 13th and itll soon become a part of your repertoire all the way to September, even if you hate brunch with the force of 10,000 suns. Whenever you eat it, savory brioche pudding is a good way to win a weekend.Of course, so are artichokes, and Melissa Clarks been messing with those of late in advance of her latest Good Appetite column. In it, she introduces three new recipes you should try in coming days: for pasta with pancetta and artichokes; for roasted artichokes with ricotta and peas; and for simple steamed artichokes with melted butter and lemon.Serve that last number on wooden dinner plates from some Scandinavian vintage shop and youll have a small view of my childhood. (Heres your soundtrack: Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Will the Circle Be Unbroken.)So thats Sunday, somehow. On Monday, how about a bowl of minestrone soup, Alice Waters-style?Tuesday night you could make swordfish piccata for dinner, eat it with stovetop rice and a pile of cold, dry watercress.Midweek joy is Melissas recipe for a garlic- and thyme-roasted chicken with croutons made in the drippings of the bird. (Have Pierre Franeys broccoli saut on the side.)For Thursday: maybe miso-broiled scallops? Or a spicy, cumin-funky lamb burger? Maybe some pan-roasted salmon with jalapeos?Cook something relatively simple and delicious, at any rate, that will free your mind for a Friday blowout: either Melissas grilled bone-in rib-eye steak if its warm and you can cook outside; or Gabrielle Hamiltons outrageous steak tartare if youre housebound and hungry. (Do not, please, omit the Vegemite.)There are thousands more recipes to cook this week or whenever you choose to cook on NYT Cooking. You will of course need to sign up for a subscription in order to access them. I hope you will do so if you havent already. (If you have, thank you! Now, would it be crazy if I asked you to get a gift subscription for, like, someone you care about?)Please get in touch with us if anything goes haywire, either in a recipe or with our technology. We are a service desk. We are here to help. Just write: cookingcare@nytimes.com. Well get back to you as soon as we can.One brief housekeeping note before we head about as far as you can get from vanilla extract and stainless steel pans: on Friday I told you to start reading At War, The Timess forum exploring the experience and costs of war, but included a bum link. This is the correct one. Please use it.Now, I think youll like reading this Ben Taub story in The New Yorker about Patrick Skinner, a former CIA case officer in the war on terror who is now a beat cop in Savannah, Georgia, policing the city where he grew up. (He compared his situation to that of Voltaires Candide, who, after enduring a litany of absurd horrors in a society plagued by fanaticism and incompetence, concludes that the only truly worthwhile activity is tending his garden. Except my garden is the Third Precinct, Skinner said.)Theres a brutal poem by Patrick Dixon about the Bristol Bay fisherys fight against the Pebble Mine, in National Fisherman.And, finally, I saw where our pop desks Caryn Ganz was praising Kim Deal for reclaiming the Pixies Gigantic in a set played here in New York. So of course I tracked down video of the whole song, taken at the Ogden Theater in Denver back on April 18. (Heres the original audio, from 1988.) The American songbooks getting lit, no? See you tomorrow.
