DALLAS  In a carpeted sea of guns  and knives and holsters and bullet-splat earrings  Charlie Harwood stopped in his tracks as the presidents son brushed past him at the 147th annual meeting of the National Rifle Association.My hats off to you, Mr. Harwood, 66, a retired engineer from Dunlap, Ill., said to Donald Trump Jr. I dont know how your family puts up with it.The encounter, while brief, managed to capture the prevailing spirit of the four-day convention, which drew roughly 75,000 attendees to Dallas from across the United States: being pro-gun and pro-Trump, feeling on the attack and under attack, all at once.We love our guns, Mr. Harwood said. We love our president. We love our country. We want the nonsense to stop.This years convention, which ends Sunday, was held seven months after one of the deadliest mass shootings in American history, in Las Vegas. It came six months after the nations worst church shooting, in Sutherland Springs, Tex., and eleven weeks after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla. It took place blocks from where a gunman killed five Dallas police officers in 2016, and days after the funeral for another slain officer, Rogelio Santander Jr., who was shot on April 24.Inside the event, which was booked in 2012, children played with AR-15-shaped balloons. A packed arena cheered country-music songs one minute and videos denouncing the news media the next. One man who was asked about gun control gave his answer by pointing to his trigger finger.There was the young protester who marched and chanted outside the convention her relatives were attending. The Democratic mayor of Dallas who tried to accommodate all sides, all while being a gun owner himself. And there were N.R.A. members who defied political stereotypes.I voted for Hillary, said Gene Heafner, 62. He was a retired construction worker from rural Godfrey, Ill.; an N.R.A. member for decades; and a Democrat. Asked who makes up the N.R.A., he replied: Go look in the mirror. Were just like you.Ashley SurisN.R.A. member and assistant national program director for the Well Armed Woman Shooting ChaptersAge: 28From:  Cleburne, Tex.It does seem like the N.R.A. as a whole and the members are a bit under attack. Were an incredibly law-abiding group yet it seems that the Connecticut governor called N.R.A. members terrorists. I think gun owners know that our rights are under attack and at risk, so we all have a fire in our bellies to get more involved and get more vocal.It is nice to be among other gun owners and know that when Im asked the question of what do I do for a living, I dont have to skirt around the fact that Im in guns. Because I know everybody here is welcoming and supportive.Youre not going to look at somebody and know that theyre a gun owner. Were in line behind you at coffee. Were at the grocery stores with you. Our kids go to school with your kids. Weve met at P.T.A. meetings. Were everywhere.Alice Tripp N.R.A. member, gun lobbyist and legislative director of the Texas State Rifle AssociationAge: 71From: Paige, Tex.Were not here circling the wagons, surrounding the fort. We dont do that. Its not political. These are set up five to 10 years in advance. I got my hotel reservations a year ago. People got their reservations before Sutherland Springs, before Parkland, before Las Vegas. Those things are criminal activities. Were not criminals.Columbine was in April 1999. The N.R.A. annual meeting was in Denver in May. The mayor of Denver said we dont want you here. Well, its an annual meeting. Its part of the requirement because of the nonprofit status. The N.R.A. canceled the exhibit hall completely but they had the meeting. Marion P. Hammer was the first woman president of the N.R.A., and she was the president. I know her, and I was close to her. She had a bodyguard. The picketers were that vile and that scary. This is nothing.Julia HeilrayneSophomore at Stephen F. Austin High School who attended an anti-N.R.A. rally and march outside the conventionAge: 16From: Austin, Tex.Im not against gun ownership. Im just against irresponsible gun ownership. Im against uncontrolled gun ownership. I have two relatives right now who are at the convention. I believe that they know Im here, but we definitely have different opinions on this matter.The people in there dont live our realities. They dont know how scary it is for us going to school.There was a kid who had one of the plastic water bottles, and if you screw the top on, you can twist it and pop it, and the kid did that, and the entire cafeteria went silent. And this is in the middle of a high school lunch, and teenagers are notorious for being very loud, so its not a small feat to make us grow quiet all at once. Its terrifying. There was a kid who dropped a textbook in the middle of the hallway and we froze. Thats our reality and thats how scared that we are.Michael S. RawlingsMayor of DallasAge: 63From: DallasRight now this city is a little sore, because we just lost another police officer. We buried him on Tuesday. A gun killed him and almost his partner  shes sitting in Presbyterian with major head wounds in critical condition, which reminds us back to July 7. Were a little raw right now and anything that has to do with guns is a very sensitive issue for us.We wanted to host an event. We reserved the venue to have a reasonable, levelheaded discussion about guns  why the Second Amendment is important, what does reasonable gun reform look like  and listen to all sides. And I couldnt get the N.R.A. to participate and I couldnt get Michael Bloomberg to participate in this. And the organization I had signed up for, Mayors Against Illegal Guns, they wouldnt participate. So Im a little disheartened that everyone is in their tribal camp, and were not really engaging in good conversation.Im a bird shooter and so Ive got a shotgun. People dont understand that we live in a bell curve of nuance in this country. Most of us are in the middle of that bell curve.Rusty Edwards N.R.A. member and fire marshal, with his 5-year-old son, TuckerAge: 36From: Ruston, La.He hasnt actually shot a firearm yet. Hes shot BB guns. Right now were just at the level with him: Dont touch it unless youre with an adult, keep your finger off the trigger, dont point it at anybody. And hes getting it. You go back to fire safety, vehicle safety, traffic safety, stranger danger. Its all about safety. He needs to understand about gun safety. Because all these weapons in here are safe, so thats a good opportunity to reinforce that with him.Were not an evil monster. Were not. Ultimately, its an American fundamental. Weve had presidents of the United States who are lifetime N.R.A. members. Its ingrained in our fabric as a nation.Theres always been a political climate that weve always been through. Its not just Parkland. It goes back to Newtown, Conn. It goes back to Columbine. It even goes before that. Its nothing new. Were used to it. It helps us to outreach and to explain to people, Hey, this isnt the N.R.A.
