For some, the Frieze New York booths at Randalls Island hold a certain allure. For others, banquettes and bar stools provide a more palatable perch for viewing groundbreaking  and bank-breaking  artwork.Barflies can find solace in a handful of newer spots that pair booze with blue chip pieces. And while this kind of cultural capitalism has precedent stretching back to Picasso, nothing feels more now than swilling a $17 drink beside a Shepard Fairey mural at Vandal on the Bowery, a street that Theodore Roosevelt once described as haunted by demons as evil as any that stalk through the pages of the Inferno. For better or for worse, todays demons are sheathed in sequined mini-dresses and backward baseball caps. This is the new New York, and to guide you accordingly, a Frieze alterna-art crawl.The (Literal) Work of ArtHow do I say this? Its pretty dope, said a barista of working at the gallery Hauser & Wirths Roth Bar in Chelsea, a lighthearted assemblage thats as close as one can get to drinking ros inside a real sculpture. Bjorn Roth, son and collaborator of the late artist Dieter Roth, created the space with his sons Oddur and Einar. Most people like it. And the more they drink, the more they like it, Mr. Roth said. I like it very much when Ive spent maybe an hour there.Mr. Roths bar and restaurant is a mash-up of found objects ranging from keyboards to paintbrushes to power strips to defunct TVs. Light bites, including the ubiquitous avocado toast, are available, yet another natural extension of the Roths proclivities. You know, it is, in a way, a family tradition  we love cooking, and were known to be quite good drinkers. Roth Bar, at Hauser & Wirth, 548 West 22nd Street, 212-790-3900, hauserwirth.com.The Site-Specific InstallationFor a dose of au courant cool, look no further than Straylight, a cocktail cave in the styling of the artists Justin Lowe and Jonah Freeman. Guests are guided down a steep, narrow corridor lined with lo-fi video art of zombified yogis, quack beauty products and double-take pharmaceutical posters  all awash in pink and purple hues. The nouveau 70s-style bar just beyond couldnt feel farther from the stairwell installation, and according to Max Levai, a co-owner of Straylight and the izakaya and omakase hot spot Juku above it, thats very much the intent. I feel like, at that point, youre really fully transported, and you ask yourself, Where am I? That kind of doubletake will get you to dole out anywhere from $15 to $24 for a cocktail by the mixologists Jamie Jones and Dorothy Elizabeth  and youll be glad you did. Concoctions such as Field, a heady mix of Makers Mark, shiitake, oats and bitters, feels as unexpected and as colorful as the faux-stained glass canvas ceiling. Straylight, 32 Mulberry Street, 646-590-2111; jukunyc.com/straylight.The Millennial MagnetNothing conjures a certain kind of millennial cool more than the word Bushwick, and Bowen Goh and Vanessa Lis bar Mood Ring translates whatever that is into a tucked-away bar studded with kitschy-chic work from artists in the area.The ceiling blooms with fake potted plants, scraps of fuzzy pink fabric, and a spinning Chinese lantern  purposefully tacky and tactile in the way that everything else is here (note the pebble-strewn bar by Dilan Ray Cheavacci and the gender-neutral bathrooms, their walls studded with plates bearing images of celebrities like Paris Hilton and Justin Timberlake, each paired with a matching mood ring).The art world connection isnt immediately apparent, but almost everything you can make out was concocted by Mr. Goh and Ms. Lis handpicked list of artists, including Tessa Modi, Leander Capuozzo and Mohammad Asgari. We had this kind of idea that we wanted to add a new thing to the space every week  kind of like a rotating gallery, Mr. Goh said. Every time someone comes here, it looks totally different. The zodiac-inspired cocktail specials amplify this sense of flux; the Taurus special is jasmine-infused Titos cut with basil simple syrup, yuzu, dry vermouth and lemon. Mood Ring, 1260 Myrtle Avenue, Bushwick; 917-818-1738; moodringnyc.com.The Street Art StarVandal, the TAO Groups 2016 paragon of fine dining on steroids, takes the Lower East Sides once-gritty street art culture to glittering extremes. In some cases, we, as a group, totally overdesign, said Richard Wolf, a partner at TAO. But is there really such a thing? You can decide for yourself  if you make it past the squadron of hostesses and de facto traffic controllers set up at checkpoints like a culinary version of Disneys Magic Kingdom. If youve popped in, sans reservation, bets are that youll remain in limbo for a spell, perusing artwork curated by Pop International Galleries and hung in an antechamber.Take a piece of Vandal home with you, a flier reads, and for $350, you can pocket a signed and numbered unframed work by Dom Pattinson or Sean Layercake Sullivan. What you cant take home are the wall-spanning murals by such heavyweights as Mr. Fairey, Tristan Eaton and Vhils  seven artists in all, assembled by the British artist Hush. He had a very, very distinct idea, said Mr. Wolf of Hush. He said, No. 1: Every artist in the place has to have been arrested. Hence the name Vandal. That was no accident. One could cheekily suggest that the name might refer to the restaurants penchant for charging $17 for sticky rice dumplings. Vandal, 199 Bowery; 212-400-0199; taogroup.com/venues/vandal.The Postmodern PasticheThen again, big-name artists have long contributed to the walls of their preferred establishments  whether out of affection or, more likely, a real need to pay the bills. Picasso gave his work Flower Vase to the French Rivieras La Colombe dOr. Its not likely that the architect Peter Marino consciously mined this art-historical moment when channeling Picasso for his sculptures and collages flanking The Lobster Club, but its a nice thought.More likely, the spaces Cubist flourishes are meant to play off the collection of Picassos ceramic plates inspired by those that belonged to the now-defunct Brasserie, which used to occupy the space below the former Four Seasons. The plates now hold court behind the gleaming bar, where you can nurse an elderflower-spiked lychee martini and eye Marinos four original works. When the restaurant opened last November, the paintings were  follow this  reworks of the artist Richard Princes paintings of Picasso nudes. Its pastiche for the Upper East Side set, and its enough to warrant another round of those lychee martinis. The Lobster Club, 98 East 53rd Street; 212-400-0199; thelobsterclub.com.
