The Americans spent a lot of this weeks episode setting us up for a knockout punch. Philip and Elizabeth looked done  hes from Venus, shes from Moscow, end of story. Separate bedrooms. Paige and Henry giving each other worried looks.But then Philip stood in a phone booth  was it same one from which he broke up with Kimmy last week?  and told Elizabeth, alone and distressed in a Chicago hotel room, Just sit tight, Im on my way. You can debate the credibility and timing of the big romantic gesture (delivered in the shows no-frills fashion), but it was undeniably effective. I might have cried a little.Its Casablanca-in-reverse flavor was also appropriate in an episode that borrowed the title of an old French film-noir and featured Elizabeth trying to recruit a movie-mad summer intern on the staff of Sam Nunn, the senator whos been linked to the fishy Soviet arms negotiator Nesterenko.The marital drama took place against a backdrop of sudden danger, not that we hadnt seen it coming all season. Dennis has indeed been working away down in Counterintelligence, and we learned along with Stan that the Big Break has occurred. The mens-room X-rays have allowed Dennis to connect Gennadis and Sofias deaths, Rennhull, Altheon, Elizabeths break-in and even Olegs visit.The game-changing news: The F.B.I. has identified its first Illegal, a male accountant in Chicago code-named Harvest and notable (to Stan and Dennis) for his ability to seduce a male Altheon engineer and obtain a blueprint for part of the radiation sensor. The bureau is watching him and learning things about safe houses, garages and cars bought for cash that could lead them to Elizabeth and Philip. This is it, Dennis says to Stan. You should be here.Of course, it wouldnt be a Dennis-and-Stan operation without a loose end. Harvest figures out hes been made and sends an S.O.S. to Central, which contacts Claudia, who tells Elizabeth she has to go to Chicago  on Thanksgiving, that most American holiday  and deal with the situation. Which is how Elizabeth ends up in the Windy City, accompanied only by a frightened Marilyn, with a shaky plan to grab Harvest despite his F.B.I. tail. And thats why Philip ends up in that phone booth, agreeing to come save the day and possibly his wifes life, even though shes left in the middle of Thanksgiving dinner prep.The tightening noose was the episodes crisis, but its dramatic center was Elizabeth and Philips continuing woes. The show may be pushing the marriage and Cold War and espionage metaphors a little too hard, but theyre generally smart and effective in themselves. The opening scene cleverly conflated Philips announcement that he wasnt going through with the Kimmy operation and a husbands declaration that he was done with an extramarital fling  Its over doing double duty. And Elizabeth let slip how sexual jealousy was mixed in with her anger at Philips dereliction of his patriotic duty. Elizabeth stomped upstairs to Paiges room and Philip turned the other direction, to the master, a telling moment in a show that so often pictures them hanging out in bed together.We also saw their rift through the eyes of Henry, who was home for Thanksgiving  Philip leaving the room when Elizabeth entered, Elizabeth sleeping in Paiges bed. Philip blowing up when his slot car kept running off the track. (Was public slot-car racing a thing in the late 80s? I missed that.) After a sad phone conversation with his mom, the kind and perceptive Henry  now that were actually getting to see him, hes a great guy to have around  says to his dad, I just really dont understand why shes so unhappy. Philip, wrapped up in his business worries and his anger about Ilya (Sofias son), says, What? Im not sure I buy that the Philip weve been watching for the last six seasons would be that oblivious, but it was the needed transition to the final scene.Other Business Why Rififi? It allowed for a mention of the blacklisting of the director Jules Dassin, but from the title I was expecting something that would invoke the films famous, nearly silent, half-hour robbery scene. Maybe there was meant to be a connection to Elizabeths plan, which we havent seen yet, to make Harvest disappear. (On a more obscure level, you could note that Rififi ends with the antihero putting himself at risk to save a young boy.) The script also worked in references to several other old movies, including the great Jean-Pierre Melville gangster flick Bob le Flambeur. Elizabeth meets the intern, Jackson, at the Key Theater, an art house on Wisconsin Avenue in Georgetown that closed in 1997. Its now a Restoration Hardware. Extra value, in the context of The Americans: The theater was said to have been named for Francis Scott Key. Later, on the Metro (which looks an awful lot like the New York subway), Elizabeth tells her target she works for a firm that does management consulting. Soon after, we see Philip telling the hapless Stavos that he wasnt pulling his weight as he fires him. Its Philip who could use the management training, a point brought home when his son offers to hook him up with a friends father whos also had some failures but is now a successful businessman. The mail robot had its biggest scene of the season, hilariously pushing its way into the elevator with Stan and Dennis. And there was a clear reference to the F.B.I.s one big advantage over the Illegals (beyond memo-delivery technology): personnel. Stan was able to put 50 men to work tracking down car sales. (Dennis needed one of them to follow another lead thats potentially deadly for Elizabeth and Philip: Harvest was seen talking to a Russian Orthodox priest.) Favorite printable line of the episode: Elizabeth, after offering Henry a cigarette, Youre an adult now, I dont have to hide things from you anymore. Finally, the episodes dialogue-free pop-song scene was done to Tears for Fears Ideas as Opiates, a somewhat obvious anthem about the tyranny of belief systems (like Elizabeths). After Thanksgiving dinner at the Beemans  where Stan delivered a toast about the people out there threatening the American way of life  Philip went to one of those garages the F.B.I. is homing in on. After going through some of Elizabeths stuff  disguises, documents, the notebook with her drawings  he prepared a message and dropped it off. Later we saw Oleg pick it up and decode it. We dont know what it said  it could go either way, but based on all the evidence Im assuming it was: Im out. Im sticking with my wife.
