In a sixth-floor walk-up apartment in the East Village of Manhattan, in a space no wider than a train car, a Met Gala gown was created. First in the mind of its designer, Katya Ekimian, a 19-year-old Parsons School of Design student, and then from yards of fabric previously piled in bags in a corner. Late last month in Ms. Ekimians apartment, which faces the buildings interior but is flooded with light, paper patterns were strewn like blueprints, fabric panels were stacked, and muslin toile hung on the back of her bedroom door.   I had to move my furniture to lie down the fabric to cut the circle skirt, Ms. Ekimian said, punctuating the sentence with a booming, easy laugh that peppers all her statements. You dont have to be anywhere special to make something youre proud of.The gown  sleek and full length, made from black and blue brocade with rope details, a drop waist and an elaborate neckline  is not for just anyone, but then again, not just anyone is invited to the Met Ball. It was custom-made for Sandra Jarva Weiss, the wife of Daniel Weiss, president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and it nods to this years theme: Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination. The pattern reminded Ms. Jarva Weiss of leaded glass, similar to stained glass but without color, and the roping hints at details on priests robes. The neckline also subtly evokes a cross.At Ms. Jarva Weisss final fitting, two weeks before the event, the gown was  draped on a paisley armchair where Ms. Ekimian knits and had for weeks watched two mourning doves incubate their eggs in a nest on her windowsill. They hatched the week she constructed the final garment. The scene conjures a fairy tale, but Ms. Ekimian is no princess waiting patiently for life to happen. She is always on her grind.Unstoppable, passionate, self-reliant and talented are all words Ms. Jarva Weiss, a lawyer for a Midtown firm, used to describe Ms. Ekimian in just a manner of minutes. She has a very infectious spirit, said Ms. Jarva Weiss, who asked Ms. Ekimian earlier this year to create her dress.  Ms. Ekimian, a Russian-American who was born in Washington, D.C., and spent many years in Egypt, a self-described hugger, exudes none of the pretension or anxiety one might expect from a 19-year-old thrust into the big leagues, though designing this dress is not her first higher-profile project. Ms. Ekimian, a wrestler who won the 2015 womens wrestling state championship with the Maryland National Team, recently designed womens singlets for Adidas Wrestling.Like many of her accomplishments, this came to be not because opportunity knocked, but because she created a door where one hadnt existed.In 2016, through connections shed made while working at the Reebok store in Union Square, Ms. Ekimian arranged to meet with higher-ups for Adidas Wrestling and explained to them why womens singlets needed an update. A lot of people dont realize that women wrestlers thighs are so much larger in proportion to the rest of their body, she said.She told them she could design a new fit. And she did. Aside from attending Parsons (she is a sophomore) and creating sportswear for an international brand, Ms. Ekimian babysits, cooks in homes and caters parties. She also volunteers for the nonprofit Beat the Streets, which helps disadvantaged youth through wrestling.There is no too much, she said, calling her packed schedule an adrenaline rush. Its the cooking that brought Ms. Ekimian and the Weisses together for the Met Gala gown. In early 2017, she was contacted through  Care.com, a site that connects families and caregivers, by a woman needing someone to help make meals. That woman was Daniel Weisss mother, Leah. I make a mean lasagna, Ms. Ekimian recalled telling her.From there, Ms. Jarva Weiss asked Ms. Ekimian to hem some drapes. They were for 18 windows, 32 panels, Ms. Jarva Weiss said. Katya had them back to me in three days. A close friendship quickly followed.If you havent met Ms. Ekimian, it would be easy to think her life story was a yarn spun of exaggerations, but if anything, she seems to downplay her accomplishments, occasionally sprinkling in some self-deprecation. I dress like early 2000s Mark Zuckerberg  all hoodies and Adidas slides, she said, joking, but not. At Parsons, Ms. Ekimian tends to tailor her projects toward athletic wear, but Ms. Jarva Weisss Met Gala gown is not her first foray into formal wear. In high school, at the Cairo American College, Ms. Ekimian made prom dresses for herself and her friends  nine dresses her freshman year and seven her sophomore year, including her own. I just kept saying yes, she said.For Ms. Ekimian, designing for the Met Gala is a full-circle moment. Growing up, she would follow the event online every year with her mother, Elizabeth Arrott, who is a journalist. Before Ms. Jarva Weisss gown, Ms. Ekimians senior prom dress was the favorite garment she had made. It was inspired by the Met Galas 2015 theme, China: Through the Looking Glass. It was a floor-length silk brocade red and gold dragon-printed dress, she said.Egypt was the perfect place to learn to sew, said Ms. Ekimian, who is self-taught. Fabric was so inexpensive, and there was so much, I just started busting stuff out.And no material was off limits.She once made a dress out of Dum Dums lollipop wrappers that she had collected in a classroom. When she needed more to finish, she called the Dum Dums factory. Can you send me discarded wrappers? she asked. They shipped her the ends of spools for free. Its so easy to call someone, she said.On May 7, her dress will make its red carpet debut at one of the most scrutinized fashion events in the world.When asked how much luck has played into her success, Ms. Ekimian paused before mentioning a version of a quotation by Louis Pasteur thats a favorite of her grandfather: Chance favors the prepared mind. Yeah, I always try to have a prepared mind, she said.
