Charles Atlas, the pioneering filmmaker and video artist, is 69 and has never been busier. I can barely keep up, he said in a recent interview. Unfortunately, I never leave the house.Thats a strange predicament for a man, long inspired by New York night life, to find himself in. Mr. Atlas, who was born in St. Louis, arrived in New York in 1969 and rented a room in the East Village. Id never seen street life before, he said. Id never seen a cockroach. I didnt know anyone in New York.He soon found work  notably with the choreographer Merce Cunningham, in whose company he was the filmmaker-in-residence  and made friends. This weekend and next, several of them will share the stage at the Kitchen with Mr. Atlas in his collaborative evening of dance and film. The Kitchen Follies, a variety show, is presented in conjunction with his multimedia gallery exhibition, the past is here, the futures are coming.On the Kitchens second floor, Mr. Atlas has created two video installations: 2003, featuring video portraits of New York artists shot that year; and The Years, a large-scale, multichannel video project that shows scrolling footage of his work over time.The Kitchen Follies, inspired by the performance art and club scene on the Lower East Side during the 80s, will bring some of those faces to life. For the program, Mr. Atlas is working with several artists he has chosen  including Dancenoise, the feminist performance duo of Anne Iobst and Lucy Sexton  each of whom will present 10-minute performances.For Charlie, the instinct to hang out with somebody is the same as the instinct to work with somebody, Ms. Sexton said. We had a mini tour set up in 1987 and he said, Im going to come. We get on the plane and he says, First things first  the most important thing is that we stay friends. She considers him one of the great collaborators in any artistic field. He wants to work with people that he likes and then he has an incredibly strong underlying artistic vision and voice and style, but its not a top down, she said; its what do we want to do together?For Follies, which includes performances by the Illustrious Blacks, Laurie Berg, Jodi Melnick with the composer Julianna Barwick, and Stanley Love, Mr. Atlas will record, mix and project footage live. Im trying to figure out different ways of using video with each one, he said. You never know whats going to happen.Here are excerpts from a recent conversation at a studio at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.Do you know why youre so drawn to dance?I dont have an answer. Its funny to say, but I think Ive always had a dance spirit within, and its only actually working with Merce and seeing a lot of dance that I finally developed the kinesthetic response for something to move me.Is your approach different for every dance?I just respond to what I see. When Im looking at work, I try to see where my eye goes; thats how I decide where to put the camera, so its different for every situation.Someone asked what there was between a good dancer and a good dancer for video. Theres no difference. Its dance. You can destroy their kinesthetic energy or you can enhance it, and I try to enhance it.Why do you like to work with artists who dont play by the rules? Its a challenge, and I think the constant in my work is that I do things I havent done before. Im fascinated by the unknown. Sometimes its risky, but I have a role model: Merce Cunningham.Do you think youre drawn to a particular kind of artist? Extreme. [Laughs] I like people who push boundaries, but at a certain point after having done a lot of these projects with impossible people, I was like, well, just because you love someones work doesnt mean you have to work with them. But Ive had a lot of very long collaborations. I still work with [the choreographers] Douglas Dunn and Michael Clark.Did you ever dance yourself? No. When I first started working with Merce on video  I was teaching him video  I thought, well if hes learning video, I should learn to dance. I took the fundamentals class and I made it to beginners. I have a kinesthetic sympathy for dance, but Im not a dancer. I used to be a big club dancer, but not turning and spotting and all of that  no!You taught Merce video?When I started working with Merce, it was also the time that I got a Super 8 camera. I was the guy with the camera. I started to make Super 8 films while we were on tour, and that was the beginning. My goal at that time was not to work with dance.Anyway, John Cage had this idea that Merce should do video because then he wouldnt have to leave home: He could just send the video out. So Merce decided to do video, and he invited me to collaborate with him.Would you describe the performance scene on the Lower East Side in the early 80s?It was all mixed in with fun and clubs, and I was a regular  not at all of them, but certainly the Pyramid and the Wah Wah Hut. I filmed a lot of the performances, but not in a careful way. I was having fun, too. The most embarrassing thing about a lot of those videos is you hear me laughing.
