LAURA & EMMA By Kate Greathead 334 pp. Simon & Schuster. $25.ImageShe was not a romantically or sexually inclined person, we are told at the start of this novel spanning 15 years in the life of a seventh-generation Manhattanite named Laura. In her 30s, Laura works as a wedding coordinator  of all things, considering that marriage has never appealed to her  at the Library, a museum that was once the home of her robber baron great-grandfather. When she finds herself pregnant after a one-night stand, Laura decides to keep the baby. Though she disdains much about her own social class and hopes to instill in her daughter, Emma, more ethical values than the ones with which she herself was raised, Laura remains tethered to her family both financially and emotionally.The years unfold in a series of vignettes, with Emma moving through the stages of a typical, if fatherless, privileged urban childhood, and Laura remaining single and celibate and seemingly O.K. with that. About sex: Ive lived my whole life without it, she assures an incredulous date after he has trouble performing, and Ive been perfectly happy. Laura is an enigmatic character, curiously lacking not only in ordinary amorousness but in any significant dreams or ambitions. Not even her love for her child feels particularly intense.Greatheads debut, which often has the feel of an updated version of Mrs. Bridge, Evan S. Connells 1959 classic study of repressed WASP womanhood, is pleasantly readable and enlivened by flashes of sardonic humor. The book might have benefited from being shorter; it is difficult to sustain narrative momentum through what is mainly a record of mundane and foreseeable experience, especially given that neither Laura nor Emma is possessed of a singular personality or a particularly original or insightful mind. The surprising, poignant and beautifully composed final scene  a rare moment of true feeling  reveals what has been mostly missing until then. This carefully observed family story rings true to life, but a larger purpose in Lauras 15-year chronicle remains elusive.THE HOUSE OF IMPOSSIBLE BEAUTIES By Joseph Cassara 397 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins. $26.99.ImageMany readers of Cassaras first novel will likely be familiar with the gay ballroom subculture of 1980s New York from Jennie Livingstons 1990 documentary Paris Is Burning. The lives of several participants in the film are vividly imagined here, primarily the members of the House of Xtravaganza, originally conceived by an aspiring dancer named Hector as a community of runaway Boricua queens. After Hectors death from AIDS-related complications, his lover Angel  herself a runaway who began the transition from he to she at 16  carries on as the house mother. Mentored by the fabulous ball-scene star Dorian, who taught her the arts of gown-making and ball-walking as well as how to turn tricks so that shed never go hungry, Angel becomes a guide and protector first to a hopelessly romantic trans girl named Venus, who dreams of a lasting relationship with a caring rich man but who fears that shell end up like her pathetic mother (the kind of love she wanted was the kind she could never have), and later to the gay teenagers Juanito and Daniel, who find themselves falling in love with each other.Some of the most memorable scenes in Paris Is Burning featured black and Latino drag queens competing for trophies on ballroom runways and dance floors. Though there is an indelible ball scene here as well, the novel is primarily concerned with the characters everyday lives  lives that poverty and relentless racial and sexual discrimination make brutally hard  and the ways in which the Xtravaganzas and their community struggle to provide shelter, tenderness and compassion in place of the rejection and abuse theyve been shown by society (including, most terribly, their own families).Riveted by their stories, you are so struck by the Xtravaganzas strength and determination, by their vibrant spirits and humor, by their creativity, by their sensitivity to beauty and their capacity to give and receive love, that you are lulled into believing that, somehow, things will get better; the house will survive. Which makes watching one after the other succumb  to AIDS, drug addiction or acts of violence  all the more shattering.SELF-PORTRAIT WITH BOY By Rachel Lyon 374 pp. Scribner. $26.ImageLu Rile, a photographer and the feisty narrator of this debut novel, looks back to the most important moment in her career. In 1991, 26-year-old Lu is a poor artist working at a minimum-wage job and living uncomfortably in a dilapidated loft in one of Brooklyns seediest industrial neighborhoods. One day, while taking the 400th in a series of self-portraits, Lu accidentally captures, in the background, the figure of a boy falling to his death from the roof of her building. This is Max, the 9-year-old son of her upstairs neighbors, a painter named Steve and his wife, Kate. The moment she sees the developed photograph Lu also sees her future. For it is a masterpiece, if Lu does say so herself, which she does, very often, and with such persuasive persistence that she succeeds in placing it in an upcoming exhibition at a major gallery  an exhibition that will also include work by Steve.But how will Lus artistic appropriation of their tragic loss affect Maxs parents, in particular fragile Kate, with whom, during this period of mourning, Lu has developed an intimate friendship? So obvious and so troubling is the answer to this question that Lu cannot bring herself to reveal the existence of the photograph until the gallery opening takes place. Meanwhile, Max has started to haunt Lu in the form of a ghost, visiting her regularly in her loft. Lu decides this, too, must be kept secret from his parents.Like the cops to whom Lu ends up telling her story, I found myself flinching at the supernatural parts. The ghosts role undercuts the novels seriousness, and Lus attempt to fit it into an explanation for certain developments is not just tortured but unnecessary. This artists bildungsroman has enough on its hands wrestling with complex questions about art-making, integrity and the ethics of ambition. I dont believe there is any relationship between art and morality, Lu asserts glibly during an interview for a teaching position. These words, easy to say, will not be easy to live by.
