Exactly how will you reinvent yourself this spring? With the shops awash in options, the choices can be paralyzing. So, like any endeavor, its best to break your wardrobe update into  manageable chunks. Start with five pieces, then add the bits and baubles. Here, our suggestions for the essential purchases of the season.A Jacket That WorksIt isnt quite T-shirt weather, and even when temperatures rise to appropriate heights, youll need a light jacket to endure those frozen tundras imposed by air-conditioning. The coolest jacket right now is one inspired by work wear, ideally in a surprising shade. Wear with everything.From left: Urban Outfitters vintage French chore jacket, $69 at Urban Outfitters, urbanoutfitters.com; Community Clothing denim chore coat, $104 at Selfridges, selfridges.com; Carhartt WIP cotton blend jacket, $168 at Carhartt Work in Progress, us.carhartt-wip.com; Ijji cotton work jacket, $180 at ijji.co. The It Bag of the FutureThe Los Angeles label Building Block has won a loyal following thanks to its minimalist sculptural accessories, which are not unlike the kind of artwork you may see at the citys Museum of Contemporary Art. Its fitting, then, that those two would link up on a capsule collection, including this iPhone sling. And as the increasing use of Apple Pay and Venmo means less use for wallets, it may be the it bag of the future.Building Block x MOCA leather iPhone sling, $125 at MOCA, mocastore.org. The Long ShortsWho wears short shorts? No one over 35, usually  and certainly not to the office. But this spring, designers, thoughtfully addressing the needs of, say, 80 percent of the population, have extended the hemlines. The result: shorts you can wear anywhere, even, in the right fabric, to a cocktail party.From left: Melitta Baumeister cotton blend shorts, $480 at Totokaelo, totokaelo.com; Wales Bonner cupro blend shorts, $525 at Totokaelo, totokaelo.com; Martine Rose cotton cargo shorts, $610 at La Garonne, lagarconne.com; Marques Almeida denim shorts, $350 at La Garonne, largarconne.com.  A New Take on a TrendWhile the must-have earrings of the last seasons tended to be boldly minimalist or made of precious and semiprecious metals, this springs must-haves are playful and packed with color. This may be the final flourish before the long-running jewelry trend flames out. Enjoy wisely.Clockwise from far left: Marni resin earrings, $435 at shopbop.com; Kate Spade New York beaded earrings, $78 at shopbop.com; Rachel Comey acrylic earrings, $92 at needsupply.com.Life in Plastic    The forecast for shoes this spring? Clear. In a forward-thinking touch at a time when fashion is often looking back, designers have turned to PVC and Lucite to give classic shapes a fresh spin. Slipping into a pair is the easiest way to update a ho-hum outfit.Maryam Nassir Zadeh slides with block heels, $437 at Shop Super Street, shopsuperstreet.com. 
