PARIS  Fifty years ago, almost to the day, students here began to strike over the rigidity and hierarchy of the French university system, defying the historical deference of young people to their elders; the same day, workers at a major factory near Nantes walked out.  Within days, the strikes spread to other universities and factories, and garbage collectors and office workers joined in. By mid-May, more than 10 million people across France were on strike, and the country had all but come to a standstill. The protests of 1968 ushered in more than five years of social upheaval, intensifying an antiwar movement in Europe and contributing to the womens liberation and gay rights movements. And it all started with a call to upend the old order.There was an idea that France was a class society and it had to be torn down, said ric de Chassey, a professor of contemporary art who curated, with Philippe Artires, Clash of Images, an exhibition at the Beaux-Arts de Paris. It showcases posters from those early days of social upheaval, as well as art and documents from subsequent protests for womens rights and gay rights.The shows title refers to the way the 1968 protests evolved from uniting the left and people from different backgrounds  middle class and working class  to dividing them when the strikes ended and leftist factions re-emerged. But in those first months of protest, university students, factory workers and government employees joined intellectuals and teachers to try to fulfill the dream of making France a more egalitarian place. The cole des Beaux-Arts was at the center of the revolt. Many of the prestigious art schools students and teachers occupied the 300-year-old stone structure on the Left Bank of the Seine: Rather than holding meetings only in the buildings vast rooms and courtyards, they turned the school into an atelier, or artists workshop, where they created protest art.  The often arresting posters straddled the line between art and propaganda.  In keeping with the utopian ideals of collective work and anonymous authorship, the artists   labored together to conceptualize, design and write slogans for the posters that framed their revolutionary sentiments. Someone would say We need a poster that talks about immigration,  Mr. de Chassey explained. Then someone would propose a design, someone else would propose a slogan and then it would be discussed by a committee. The students printed hundreds or sometimes several thousand copies of the posters and taped them to lampposts and walls around Paris. In an era before the internet, the posters became a trusted way to communicate plans for action as well as the protesters political messages. There was little faith in electronic media at the time because it was state owned.  The strikes that began in May 1968 became the template for social protest in contemporary France, and although the fervent anti-establishment sentiments have faded, the mentality of struggle still resonates. The Beaux-Arts posters, on display through May 20, give a sense of the ferment of idealism, rebellion and rejection of the status quo that permeated French society and marked the second half of the 20th century.Some of the posters are easily comprehensible, but others need a little explanation. Heres a look at 11 of the most emblematic. One of the most iconic posters on display depicts a member of the French riot police (the Compagnies Rpublicaines de Scurit, or C.R.S.) as a baton-wielding member of the SS, the Nazi special police. Under the title Grve Illimite (Unlimited Strikes), three figures walk arm in arm, representing the students, union members and factory workers who joined together in protest. The words on a bottle of poison read, Press Do Not Swallow, a warning not to trust the state-owned news media. At the time, Frances television and radio stations were state-owned corporations. The raised fist is a straightforward call to march and to fight for the causes of students and workers. It remains a well-known symbol of solidarity on the left. Police officers raided the cole des Beaux-Arts and forcibly expelled the students who had occupied it, turning the complex into a workshop. In this poster, a helmeted officer, complete with wolf-sharp teeth, grips a paintbrush in his mouth, a symbol of the police takeover of the school.  The slogan plays on the French verb afficher, which means to display but in its reflexive form, safficher, means to show up. The poster says: The police show up at the Beaux-Arts, the Beaux-Arts displays in the street.  The poster above is a straightforward reference to the ties that bond factory workers and university students and that calls on them to unite.  This poster shows the silhouette of Charles de Gaulle, a World War II general and the French president at the time, covering the mouth of a young man. Be young and shut up, he says.  The expression was also an adaptation of a well-known phrase, sometimes used to denounce sexism, from a popular French film of 1958 titled Be Beautiful but Shut Up. A sketch of Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a French-German student leader during the uprising, above the French words for We are all undesirables. It refers to Mr. Cohn-Bendits expulsion from France during the  protests, when he was deemed an undesirable. In this poster, the factory chimney completes the last letter of Oui, or Yes, above the words Occupied factories, to encourage workers to take over more of them. At the time, factories all over France were closed or occupied by striking workers. Among the many companies affected were the auto manufacturers Renault and Citron, and the aeronautics firms Sud Aviation and Dassault.  In response to the protests, Mr. de Gaulle was reported to have said: Reform, yes. Havoc, no. The poster above reads Once again, the havoc is him. Until 1968, Mr. de Gaulle was primarily associated with the resistance in World War II, but in 68 he tried to repress the strikes with armed police officers. His lack of sympathy for the strikers and his seeming inability to understand them made him the target of much of the protesters anger. This classic poster of May 68 depicts unity between French and immigrant workers. France had recruited many workers from Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia to help build railroads and other infrastructure or industrial installations. A short man, who appears to symbolize the factory owners or owners of capital, tries to push them apart.  The slogan reads, Workers united. Daphn Angls contributed reporting from Paris.
