INTERNATIONALAn article on Friday about the nerve agent in an attack in Britain on a former Russian spy and his daughter, using information provided by the director general of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, gave an incorrect estimate for the amount used. The organization later said in a statement that the amount should be measured in milligrams, not grams, and that in any case it would not be able to estimate how much was used in the attack. (The director general originally gave an estimate of 50 to 100 grams.)NATIONALAn article on Wednesday about the resignation of two aides erroneously included a former policy adviser to Scott Pruitt among the people Mr. Pruitt blamed in congressional testimony for the public criticism he has faced. He did not publicly blame the adviser Samantha Dravis.An article on Friday about new sexual harassment rules issued by the Department of Justice misattributed a statement regarding a report on sexual harassment within the department. It was a Justice Department employee who stated that officials responded to the report by saying that the episodes it covered all occurred under the Obama administration, not Michael E. Horowitz, the departments inspector general. The article also misstated how Mr. Horowitz believed the department would begin to respond to sexual harassment. He said that he believed the department would fire more people than it had in the past and that people who receive harsher punishments often push back, not that he believed the department would not fire more people and would be sued.BUSINESS DAYAn article on Friday about a coming I.P.O. for the hardware company Xiaomi misstated the relationship between Alibaba and Ant Financial. They are both controlled by Jack Ma; Alibaba does not own Ant Financial. The article also misstated the given name of the chief executive of Hong Kongs stock exchange. He is Charles Li, not Richard Li.WEEKEND ARTSAn article on Friday about two projects highlighting female artists from Africa misstated the age of the artist Alka Dass. She is 25, not 23.An art entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Take My Breath Away exhibition at the Guggenheim Museum misspelled the first name of the artist who created the work being displayed. He is Danh Vo, not Dahn.ARTS & LEISUREAn article on Page 1 about the comedian Ali Wong misstates Ms. Wongs status with the series Fresh Off the Boat. She used to write for it; she is not currently a writer on it. The article also refers incorrectly to Justin Hakutas position at a tech company. He is a vice president, but not the sole vice president.An article on Page 38 about the actor Ryan Reynolds misstates the title of Mr. Reynoldss sitcom. It was Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place, not Two Girls and a Guy and a Pizza Place.A picture caption with an article on Page 28 about the artist Dorothea Rockburne omits the name of the artwork using cont crayon, pencil, oil, gessoed and painted white on folded linen. It is Egyptian Painting: Sahura.An article on Page 26 about the actor Benedict Cumberbatch misstates the name of a work by the writer David Nicholls. It is One Day, not One Fine Day.T MAGAZINEAn article on March 25 about Mauis upcountry referred incorrectly to the reign of King David Kalakaua; he was the second-to-last reigning royal of Hawaii, not the last one. The article also misstated the location of two small towns, Lahaina and Kapalua; they are on the islands northwest coast, not in the south.OBITUARIESAn obituary on April 26 about Dr. Samuel S. Epstein, an authority on carcinogens, referred incorrectly to cyclamates and nitrites. Cyclamates are used as sweeteners, not preservatives; nitrites are used to cure hot dogs, not to dye them.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
