BERLIN  Artists and experts from galleries, museums and auction houses talked with journalists from The New York Times at the Art Leaders Network conference in Berlin. Excerpts have been edited and condensed.Rising Art CentersDr. Kilian Jay von SeldeneckManaging director, Kunsthaus LempertzWhen it comes to Berlin its the historic density of the city that is attracting talent over time and always has been. I was born and raised in West Berlin, and I was 10 when the wall came down.And I think this iconic, symbolic moment of the Iron Curtain being torn apart in Berlin touched people across the globe, and still gives them the shivers when they come to Berlin and see the historic dimension here.I think this is very much some of the advantage of Berlin when it comes to showing the roots of the cultural city here.Philip TinariDirector, UCCA, BeijingI moved to Beijing in 2001. I arrived the week before 9/11, right out of college to study Chinese. Whats allowed Beijing to become a global art center in these past 18 years: Its about the fact that there is a significant community of artists, but its also about an ecology that kind of builds on itself year after year.So if you look around today you have institutions, you have auction houses, you have galleries, you have media, you have critics, you have independent curators, and you have collectors. And you need all of these ingredients, and they tend to impact each other in a sort of positive feedback loop.Marc GlimcherPresident and chief executive, Pace GalleryWhy are art galleries expanding, why are they opening galleries all over the world? Its driven by the community dynamics that they dont want to come to us. They dont want this exclusive experience.Theyre very happy to come to us, but they want to see us come to them. So we started going to Palo Alto about almost 15 years ago.And from our lessons  like our lessons in Beijing and around the world  you realize that you must become part of that community. You have to have something to offer that community.It is about connecting with the artists, connecting with historians, and also seeing how the galleries connect with a broader public. Because thats what in particular in a place like Palo Alto or a place like Shenzhen the interest is in  how do we touch millions and millions of people, which is something that the art world historically hasnt put a huge focus on. So that becomes extremely important.Art in a Populist AgeDr. Tristram HuntDirector, Victoria and Albert Museum, LondonRight from the beginning, museums like the V&A had this very popular, democratic, civic function. And arguably they slightly lost their way in the mid-20th century, when they became very introverted, scholastic, overly academic in terms of their approach to the public. So we are going back to our founding mission.But the tactic we take is that we dont give an inch on curatorial excellence, that actually what the public comes to museums and pays quite large sums of money to see is the insides of curatorial talent and skill alongside the collections. We will move heaven and earth to make it as accessible as possible.But youve got to have the balance. We cannot be a theme park. We cannot be a venue-for-hire. Scholarship and curatorial scholarship has to absolutely be at the heart of it.Managing as a Mega-DealerDavid Zwirner Owner, David Zwirner GalleryThe primary motivation to grow is to further the artists audience. So what we do as a gallery, first and foremost, we are representing artists and artist estates. And our job is to bring that work to not just those places that are already familiar with it, but also the places that are not familiar with the work.You need more touchpoints where you can inform people about what the artists are doing that we represent.And of course, ideally, you do that in a gallery setting where you present an exhibition.But art fairs are very important, and, you know, its a great way to get to know new people and to present ones program across the world.The audience is actually changing. The socioeconomic mix is totally different. Its much younger than it used to be. And subsequently, different types of people are coming into the gallery, and thats a beautiful thing.Of course, the gallery is for free, so people should come.Preoccupation With Contemporary ArtJorge CollChief executive, ColnaghiI was reading some materials prepared for the panel this morning and noticed that in 2017 the highest-attended exhibition globally was ancient Buddhist sculptures in Tokyo  nearly 12,000 people a day coming to see ancient Japanese sculptures.So in a way I think that we dont have a job to do that is engaged in singling out the old versus the new. We have a job to do in terms of defining access and inclusion across the entire spectrum of our programmatic mission fulfillment.And so our ability to tell expansive stories in the ancient world, in the old master world, and the contemporary world, I think the obligation is exactly the same.But I also think that in general times  and I know that there are certain people here in the audience that have dealt with this  experience has also become more interesting than possession. That is a challenge  how do we as, in my case a dealer, find people that actually still want to possess something?Asia: The Next Market FrontierLisa Dennison Chairman, Americas, SothebysForty percent of our new clients in the recent years are under 40 years old, so its a very young demographic. About 40 percent of their spend is on Western art. And thats really interesting to us.The billionaires in Asia tend to be about 20 years younger than billionaires in the West, so thats also another kind of support statistic for a much younger demographic.The Promise and Perils of ExpansionSheikha Al Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa al-ThaniChairwoman, Qatar Museums board of trusteesI think with the National Museum of Qatar weve been always reluctant to announce an opening date just because of the complexity of the museum. Its finished in terms of building. The construction is complete. The collection is in place.If a museum in the West is delayed, nobody really talks about it or cares. The moment a museum in the Middle East is delayed, its front page headlines. So for us, we want to make sure that we open it correctly as opposed to opening it on the day that we have previously announced.So were not challenged by the idea of reflecting on our project and deciding when to really open it. I think, currently, were looking at opening the building in March of 19  so from December to March is not really that much of a delay.Daniel H. WeissPresident and chief executive, Metropolitan Museum of ArtThe Metropolitan went through a process of careful review of our facilities and developed a master plan about five or six years ago and within that plan we identified a lot of deferred maintenance issues that had to be addressed, that had built over the course of five decades. Im talking about over $800 million dollars worth of deferred maintenance.And we needed a plan to deal with what we already had and the consequence of expansion over the course of the last five decades that was very extensive.The modern and contemporary art facilities we have now are not worthy of the rest of the Metropolitan. Its not substantial enough for our existing collection and it has all kinds of infrastructure problems. So I think one of the lessons in this discussion is, what does it take to actually produce an expansion project?One has to be as thoughtful and focused about priorities, to be a good client for the architect and for ourselves and I think when we began this project several years ago we had lots of good ideas. Thats great. But if you have too many of them, the project gets increasingly complex, increasingly expensive, increasingly unwieldy. Our budgets are now in order and we have a very good plan.Elizabeth DillerFounding partner, Diller, Scofidio + RenfroMy studio took on the MoMA expansion project because we knew that MoMA really, really needed to transform. It needed to expand to show more of its collection because a lot of its collection is behind closed doors.Secondly, its interface with the city was really not very good. How could MoMA be better in its current manifestation and how could it show more work in better ways, in deeper ways? The whole variety of work, things that it was not able to show because of limitations.So, you know, Ive been doing this with all my heart and I have full belief that the project is going to be a big improvement.Art Through TechnologyOlafur EliassonArtistAlmost everything in the studio is influenced by computers nowadays. The artists who work there work with computers; the architects are trained on computers. So its hard to imagine running the studio without technology, so to speak.We have a number of things going on in the research which are related to technology, such as playing with VR. And were very active on the social media. And it turns out that, for instance, the home page, when we finally got around to checking how many people actually visit the home page, theres more people visiting the home page than going to the exhibitions.So some years ago we took the home page much more seriously, realizing, my God, this is our space, this is a way to have a dialogue with people that is otherwise not really appreciated. So gradually we have become incredibly influenced by technology.Art in a World of DisruptionAi WeiWeiArtistFor me, the art I love is always political. Picasso is very political to me. All those important artists, they always have very political opinions. Duchamps is very political to me. He became very intellectual.If you talk about Medieval art or Renaissance, good art always has to have a strong content, giving new definition to aesthetics  you know, having a strong moral manifesto and always having a strong philosophy behind it.Virtual Reality as Art FormEdward KlarisManaging partner, Klaris Law; chief executive, KlarisIPTheres a number of ways that VR can be used. One is, artists adopting a new medium. But what I can imagine is that this world will draw from moviemakers, from photographers, from VR people, young people who grow up in a space. And so as you look at the categories of artists you also have to look at the way the different fields monetize their content, right?I mean, in the art world traditionally you take an object and you sell it for a given price, and that exchange is it. And then that object gets sold again to another person at another time, and thats it. The artist gets paid only the first time.However, in the movie business the relationship with your art might change very much. You might get paid every time the thing is sold or distributed. It might be a piece of VR thats going down on Netflix, and in your home youre wearing your goggles. So the artist could be getting a royalty as opposed to a single-sale payment.Sandra NedvetskaiaPartner, Khora ContemporaryI think we are moving in the direction of virtual reality, in general, technology, being part of our everyday life. We see now how museums have embraced VR, we saw the Tate with the Modigliani show, where they reproduced Modiglianis studio, which was quite talked about and popular, and drew quite a lot of younger crowds, who maybe were not familiar with the artist.You have virtual museums where private collectors put their artworks into a virtual world so you can approach the works and see them in a virtual space, without having to actually physically go to the museum.I always ask myself how would my kids want to experience art. What would draw them to a museum? In our family we all come from the art world, so it forces them to look at art. But they perceive art in a completely different way if its done with the aid of technology, whether we like it or not. And I think this is the future, and this is an opportunity for us to draw the younger generations to museums, to art galleries.The Future of Art MuseumsGlenn D. LowryDirector of the Museum of Modern Art, New YorkI think the real issue for all of us in the museum world is to learn to think digitally, so that what were talking about is not simply the transformation of certain kinds of stories into different formats, or the use of new technologies to deliver those stories, but to fundamentally rethink how we think, to move away from the kind of analogue art history that we were all taught  hierarchical, sequential, to a more networked reconsidered manner of actually presenting works of art, so that we begin to move into a realm where the way in which we look at art, the way in which we display art, actually is no longer so analogue.And I think one of the great advents of digital technology is that it has begun to teach us how to imagine different relationships between objects and between viewers and objects.I think one of the reasons weve seen our demographics change dramatically from an average age of a little over 50 to an average age of under 40 has been because weve recognized what people who are younger want to do when they go to a museum. They want to be with each other, and talk, and think, and text, and create a kind of continuum of experience.The Changing Dynamics of Auction Houses and DealersEdward DolmanChief executive, PhillipsEssentially it is a very collaborative business. I mean, were all sitting here in this room, we all know each other. Were sitting here with museum directors, gallery owners, auction house people. Theres a huge amount of shared resolve I suppose, and shared experience.And all that comes together quite often to create business opportunities in our world. And Ive always believed that the most successful people in our business are the people who do collaborate  legally of course, for most  and there are huge opportunities for dealers to work with auction houses.Capital and finance and the amounts of money that are now required  I mean, most dealers find it very difficult to get anywhere near because of the sums of money required. Auction houses are a source of funding for deals, etc., etc.So, yeah, we are in a different world, and I think inevitably weve been collaborating more and more closely for some time.Marc PorterChairman of Christies AmericasI think that were both competitors and collaborators. I would draw a distinction though between the secondary market and the primary market. I agree that the primary market is no place for auction houses, and that it requires a completely different structure in order to build the careers of artists.I think when it comes to the secondary market it is very much a place for auction houses in the guise of private sales, and that there should be no distinction, and that the global footprint of either the great galleries or the auction houses provide equally good distribution options for the clients.Dominique LvyCo-founder and partner, Lvy GorvySometimes we compete, and sometimes we collaborate. But at the end of the line its two very different professions.Being a gallery, being in auction houses have two different motivations, two different goals. But I think there are places where its a very fruitful collaboration.
