Here are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. Before he became President Trumps do-it-all fixer, Michael Cohen was a hard-edge personal-injury lawyer and businessman.A New York Times review of thousands of pages of public records, and interviews with bankers, lawyers and businessmen who have interacted with Mr. Cohen, reveal that he has often operated in the backwaters of the financial and legal worlds.Now his business records are under the microscope of federal prosecutors  posing a potential threat not just to Mr. Cohen, but also to the president.There were conflicting statements this week from Mr. Trump and his new lawyer Rudolph Giuliani about Mr. Cohens $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels before the election. Heres the latest.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. Heres the front page of our Sunday paper and our crossword puzzles.____2. As he battles brain cancer and the debilitating side effects of his aggressive treatment, Senator John McCain of Arizona is reckoning with his history and the future.Mr. McCain, seen above on Capitol Hill late last year, is receiving a stream of visitors at his ranch near Sedona, where HBO recently filmed a documentary about him. He also co-wrote a new book, The Restless Wave.The film and book are set to be released this month, and amount to a concluding argument for his brand of Republicanism: pro-free trade and pro-immigration. He is also sharply critical of President Trump.In fact, Mr. McCains intimates have informed the White House that the current plan for his funeral is for Vice President Mike Pence to attend, but not the president himself. The service will be held in Washingtons National Cathedral.For more news from Washington, check out this weeks roundup of the biggest stories in American politics.____3. Robocalls  at best annoying disturbances and at worst costly financial scams  are getting worse. Though automated calls have long plagued consumers, the volume has skyrocketed in recent years, reaching an estimated 3.4 billion in April.Lawmakers are working on legislation to curb abuses, and federal regulators have issued new rules allowing phone companies to block calls. But its difficult to trace the calls, let alone stop them.In the meantime, take heart that youre not the only one being targeted. Here are some steps you can take to try to keep the calls at bay.____4. Summer may never be the same. The C.D.C. says infections like Lyme disease, dengue and Zika that are spread by ticks and mosquitoes are soaring.Experts say there are probably many reasons, including warmer weather and increased plane travel. Here are some tips for protecting yourself and your family.____5. Researchers say that more than a billion people around the world need eyeglasses but dont have them. (And some estimates put the figure closer to 2.5 billion.)The simple fix has long been low on the list of public health priorities, but one nonprofit is trying to catapult the issue onto the global development agenda.Faulty eyesight keeps children from succeeding in school, makes it difficult for older people who have to read small print for work, and contributes to traffic accidents. In fact, experts say a significant number of Indias roughly 200,000 traffic deaths each year are tied to poor vision. Above, a mobile eye checkup camp in the state of Tamil Nadu, India.____6. Among our best-read articles this week: Our investigation into a 2013 Washington Redskins cheerleaders trip to Costa Rica.Some of the cheerleaders said they were required to pose topless during a photo shoot while male sponsors and suite holders looked on  and then escort the men to a nightclub.The longtime director for the Redskins cheerleaders disputed the womens accounts. Above, the teams cheerleaders before a 2013 game.____7. One woman had an ancestor who was lynched in Georgia in 1912; the other had relatives who helped in the killing. Now theyve become friends.Karen Branan, left, and Jackie Jordan Irvine discussed the remarkable tale of how they met in a Facebook Live chat with our Race/Related columnists this week. Ms. Irvine came across the name of a relative in a book that Ms. Branan had published about the lynching. She hadnt heard of the lynching before.For more on race and identity, sign up for our weekly Race/Related newsletter.____8. Deadpool 2 opens on May 17 to towering anticipation. It has already broken ticket presale records for an R-rated movie, and raised the bigger question of whether Ryan Reynolds can catch lightning in a bottle twice.The star, who was also a producer and writer on the movie, talked to us about how hes managing his anxiety  including doing interviews as Deadpool. (Thankfully, not with us.)And heres our full schedule of summer 2018 movie releases.____9. Saturday Night Live opened with a star-studded sketch that addressed the controversy over a payment made to Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels, above. It included a surprise cameo by Clifford herself, who delivered a warning to President Trump, played by Alec Baldwin: I know you dont believe in climate change, but a storms a-coming, baby.The episode was hosted by Donald Glover, who was also the musical guest under his stage name Childish Gambino.____10. Monday is the Met Gala, the annual black-tie fund-raiser for the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute.Our chief fashion critic gave us the lowdown on the gala, which has been called the Oscars of the East Coast for its over-the-top red carpet. The invite-only guest list is full of celebrities who often choose frocks that fit the theme of the latest exhibition.This year, its Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination. The exhibition opens May 10 and is the biggest show the institute has ever held. Above, Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue and the galas chairwoman, and Donatella Versace, a co-host, at an exhibition preview in Rome.Well have live coverage of the gala.____11. Finally, signs of a revival in Detroit, above, a pharmaceutical companys kickback scheme and the first female American fighter pilots. We have those stories and more of our signature journalism in this collection of our best weekend reads.For more suggestions on what to watch and read, may we suggest our list of the best shows and movies new to streaming services in May, our music critics latest playlist or a glance at The New York Times Best Sellers List.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
