Middleway, W.V.WHAT A 1770 house with six bedrooms and three and a half bathroomsHOW MUCH $374,900SIZE 3,364 square feetPRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $111SETTING This colonial-era stone building is in Middleway, a community in Jefferson County about 14 miles west of Harpers Ferry, W.V., and 75 miles northwest of Washington, D.C. The entire town has been designated a historic district, as it is known for its ghost legends and Civil War re-enactments.INDOORS This building had a few lives as a tavern and was also a 19th-century apothecary with a surgeons office. Restored over the last 15 years by the two most recent owners, it has original hardwood floors and a large stone dining-room fireplace with a pot crane. Other fireplaces are in the parlor, the family room and the library (formerly the apothecary). The kitchen has a beamed ceiling, brick-tile floors and a back staircase leading to the upper level. The main floor also has a master bedroom suite with a fireplace, full bathroom and private access to a backyard porch. There is also a half bathroom.Upstairs is a second master bedroom suite with a sitting room, a full bathroom and a private balcony, as well as a large guest bedroom, three connected bedrooms, described as Quaker rooms, and a second full bathroom.OUTDOOR SPACE The .37-acre property has notable gardens that are sometimes rented out for weddings. There are also two patios, a gazebo and a potting shed created in an old smokehouse.TAXES $1,939CONTACT Shannon Downs Casper, Hunt Country Sothebys International Realty, 703-508-3195; huntcountrysir.comMinneapolisWHAT A 1927 Spanish-Tudor revival house with two bedrooms and two bathroomsHOW MUCH $369,999SIZE 1,646 square feetPRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $225SETTING  The house, which is in the Hale neighborhood near the Minneapolis-St. Paul airport, has received noise-reducing modifications, including high-end storm windows and retrofitted air-conditioning, through the Metropolitan Airports Commission program. It is about 10 minutes south of downtown Minneapolis, a block below Minnehaha Creek and several blocks west of Lake Nokomis Park.INDOORS An arched front door with decorative surrounding brickwork leads to a living room with similar brick details, as well as niches in the plaster above the mantel. The recently repaired wood trim here and in other rooms is provincial stained oak; the floors are white oak. The kitchen is approached from the living room or a separate dining room, and has a laundry chute that descends to the basement.The Art Deco chandelier hanging above the second-floor landing is one of several vintage pieces installed by the owners. At the top of the stairs, a glass door leads to a sun porch. The hallway has a built-in linen closet, chest of drawers and second laundry chute.The bedrooms share a tiled bathroom in the hallway. A second bathroom is on the basement level, along with a family room.OUTDOOR SPACE The home is on a 5,662-square-foot lot and has an attached one-car garage directly accessible from the basement.TAXES $3,917CONTACT Steve Imhoff, Rare Form Properties, 651-238-3216; rareformproperties.comSharon, Conn.WHAT A contemporary Cape Cod-style house with four bedrooms and one and a half bathroomsHOW MUCH $365,000SIZE 1,666 square feetPRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $219SETTING The home is on two acres and is a five-minutes walk from a historic covered bridge spanning the Housatonic River between Sharon and West Cornwall, Conn. On the other side is a small commercial area with two restaurants, a post office, an antiquarian book dealer and other merchants. The center of Sharon is about eight miles west.INDOORS The building replaced a home that was considered unsalvageable. Completed in 2007 in a traditional style, it has mullioned windows, wide-plank floors in every room, and old stone and concrete in the foundation and surrounding walls.The main floor contains a living room with a wood-burning fireplace and French doors leading to a flagstone patio; a separate dining room; a kitchen with wood countertops and a farmhouse sink; a bedroom with a lighted closet; and a half bathroom.Upstairs are three bedrooms, each with its own lighted closet (the largest room has a pair of closets). There is also a bathroom with a double vanity, a shower and a claw-foot tub.The home has two separate central air-conditioning systems, a Nest thermostat and a Kevo smart lock.The unfinished walkout basement has about 600 square feet of empty space that could be converted into a workshop, entertainment room, office or play area.OUTDOOR SPACE The house is set against a hill, with open lawns to the east and west. A fence runs between the building and a detached one-car garage, enclosing the patio space between them.TAXES $3,610CONTACT Asher Pavel, Bain Real Estate, 860-672-7437; bainrealestate.com
