Season 10, Episode 7The House of Deleganzas is now in session (gavel smash). Last week, the progress was separated from the congress. This week, our winnowed minnows headed into the primaries and began to caucus.The first issue to be brought to the floor was campaign financing. Monique Heart, her dress held up by packing tape, again blamed her failure to deliver a challenge-winning look on her lack of funds. This does cast sunshine on an important deliberation in the drag world  with new money pouring in to select drag super PACs, should there be reform? Mont X Change raised the point that she, too, is not wealthy, yet she manages to turn out a look. But, does she? She was almost eliminated twice, owing to her cheap-looking pieces. The case remains open, but it is rather clear that when it comes to the depth of their pockets, these citizens are not united.The next issue was education. Fortunately, despite our nations proposed budget slashes, the library remains open, and the annual Reading Is Fundamental mini-challenge went on. The dark horse candidate Kameron Michaels continued her campaign of surprise with delightful reads of Eureka and Mont. (I would say dont sleep on Kameron, but that is all anyone with a pulse wants to do.) Several queens ribbed The Vixen, and she reacted about as good-naturedly as a similarly humorless woman reacted to similarly humorous reads at a televised dinner held within the last seven days.Mont packed it up with a prime Amazon joke at Asia OHaras expense. Her delivery is always guaranteed to be direct and lightning-quick. Keep tracking her. (Can you tell that I am shipping her hard? O.K., O.K., Ill stop.)Eureka order-fired a joke about The Vixens kitchen (the heat of which the latter visibly could not take), and defunded the library, winning a gift certificate to L.A. Eyeworks. (Perhaps she will regift it to The Vixen, whose constant eye-rolling has surely caused vision loss.)The caucus chairman Ru then announced that Christmas for drag queens, the also-annual Snatch Game challenge, had finally come with a bound. The Mary gentlemen excitedly jingled their bells, and hung their stockings without Blair.Today, Satan, the first lady of literacy and Snatch Game legend Bianca del Rio arrived in a Holly Goheavily look, and escorted the queens toward serving bawdry, hep burns. She wisely advised Eureka against portraying Divine, steering her instead toward playing the poster child for our nations education and food-desert crises, Honey Boo Boo.Kameron announced with her singular quiet confidence that she would play the late, great wrestler Chyna, and, in what would appear to be a body-slam, Monique was encouraged to take on Congress-Auntie Maxine Waters.Upon declaring that she would portray the legendary wit Dorothy Parker, Miz Cracker was warned, Many people at home wont know who Dorothy Parker is  thats the kind of humor that receivers have to think about. It was at this point that I threw myself under a bus, and the rest of this recap was written by a Russian bot.Aquaria announced that she would embrace her sentence-hobbling flaws and use them to her advantage by playing the first lady Melania Trump. Against advisement, Asia and The Vixen chose to impersonate the publicly closed-mouthed moving images Beyonc and Blue Ivy Carter, respectively. Asia called out to the noted student of the No, bye! school of improv The Vixen: If Im stuck, I know theres someone on the panel that I can have banter with  Ill wait to play off of you until you like, really establish your character. Every atom of oxygen left the room, and every other queen quietly, knowingly secured their masks.The Good Fight star Audra McDonald and the good fighter Kate Upton took their seats as Snatch Game contestants and guest judges, and the great debate began.There was a war on this drag queen Christmas, and it was a blood bath. Eureka absolutely murdered as Honey Boo Boo, expertly heightening with a bump-set-spike of doodled answers and idiotic childlike glee. Mont, clad in a five-dollar Fulton Street Mall caftan and two-dollar Party City wig, proved that you dont have to spend money to make Mont, and well never forget how her Maya Angelou made us feel. Kameron and Cracker, as ever, made solid showings, and Aquaria, in an upset, held a Tiffany box and nailed Melania Trump.Stuck in a chimney were Asia and The Vixen, who struggled through the worst level-one improv class show Ive ever been forced to attend, and, shockingly, Monique, whose Maxine Waters failed to take shape. My shock and awe at Moniques failed performance are immeasurable. Monique has been playing Maxine Waters since this season began. Her every impassioned, singsongy confessional is addressed directly to America. She is quippy and sound-bitten and the true Auntie of the group. She is the Maxine Waters of drag. Still, her Waters ran shallow. Was she poisoned by Russian agents? Was this primary rigged?Back in the workroom, the conversation turned, as it does in these times, to politics. Mont said, I think its important to do political numbers  as drag queens I feel like thats our call to duty. Monique confessed that while she has considered doing more political work, I live in a former slave state  Tensions were really high in Kansas City, and I didnt want to get shot.The Vixen described an act in which she dragged a racial-slur-laden crucifix on stage and smashed it to bits. I dont even know that its humorous, she said I just like to throw it in white peoples faces that you know what you did.She again characterized her current approach to drag and life as an anti-injustice primal scream that she does not yet have the skill to contain or shape. This is of course understandable and, in its way, fascinating to witness. But comedy is an essential element of the art of drag. You cant bill yourself as a comedian, then take the stage and do Cut Piece. For now, The Vixen is a performance artist, which is fine, but this isnt RuPauls Performance Art Race. The representative from New York cedes the floor. Reclaim your time.The Mermaid Fantasy runway challenge, a homage to the Divine Miss M, showed us how well these men have been taught to fish. Aquaria served a Rex Tillerson fantasy as an oil-spilled, tattered-tailed mermaid. Monts warrior mermaid look earned the quip Tuna Turner from Ru, and I cannot write anything funnier than that, and therefore will not try.Asias grotesque lionfish mask earned an ick from all of the judges save Kate Upton, who kind of loved it. (Kate, if you want to really love a twisted-faced fish, call me. Im single.) And The Vixens unturned tuna had rather wide-set cans, prompting Kate to noodle, no one wants the breasts in the armpit. (Sigh, dont call me, Kate. Well never work.)The candidates were then asked that most unanswerable debate question  Who deserves to go home tonight, and why? Every queen on the stage elected to send The Vixen home, with the exception of her arch-nemesis Eureka. She named Asia, who she believes is her fiercest competition, which I do not also believe. The Vixen, naturally, voted Eureka off the island, citing her unprofessionalism, her habit of claiming to be attacked and her This is who I am. Deal with it attitude. (And we all thought irony died on 9/11.)In an attempt to Define The Relationship, Eureka countered that she has reached out to Vixen many times with love, and has been rebuffed at every turn. This provoked a torrent of defense, and even more eye rolls. I do hope Ru keeps a medic on hand.Aquarias Trump-Tillerson ticket bought her a six-night stay on that refuge for the tattered-tailed, Fire Island, while The Vixens poisonous Ivy and Moniques stagnant Waters sank them to the ocean floor. The two were ordered to runoff to Cut To The Feeling by Carly Rae Jepsen, who, my bus-crushed corpse weeps blood, will likely be known by more viewers than Dorothy Parker and Bette Midler combined.Monique did not know the words. She did not know the words. She tried to dance to safety, but botched a cartwheel and fell. Her wig slipped, and she threw it off. An act of drag suicide was broadcast on national television. For the sake of future generations, I hope VH1 loses the tape.Facts are facts: There simply is no excuse, financial or otherwise, for a drag queen to not know the words to a lip sync. Sadly, neither her glitter nor her Jesus saved her, and Monique was buried at sea.Unfathomably, one of the funniest queens to ever appear on the show did not survive the Snatch Game, and the unfunniest queen to ever appear on the show did. Against all predictions, an unbridled rage-channel who cant take a joke continues to advance. Will knowing the right words be enough to stop her? Will those words be Miss Vanjie?Alex Trebek was also featured in this episode. Alex, call me.See you next week.
