Richard Linklaters meditation on war arrives on Amazon Prime. And Carol Burnett hits Netflix.Whats StreamingLAST FLAG FLYING (2017) on Amazon Prime. Richard Linklater excels at character portraits and depicting shifting relationships. His latest film stars Bryan Cranston, Steve Carell and Laurence Fishburne as former Marines who served during the Vietnam War; they uneasily reunite after one of their sons is killed in the Iraq War some 30 years later, and travel together up the Eastern Seaboard. Even if Last Flag Flying isnt quite persuasive, it is nonetheless enormously thought-provoking, and its roughness is a sign of how earnestly it grapples with matters that other movies about war prefer not to think about, A. O. Scott wrote in his New York Times review.ROGUE ONE (2016) on Netflix. Celebrate May the 4th with this stand-alone film, set right before the events of Episode IV: A New Hope. Rebels played by Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Riz Ahmed and others team up to steal the plans for the Death Star. But Darth Vader looms, with his full powers intact. The animated series THE CLONE WARS is also on Netflix, and follows the adventures of young Anakin Skywalker, Count Dooku and Yoda as war breaks out across the galaxy.A LITTLE HELP WITH CAROL BURNETT on Netflix. Theres cognitive dissonance in hearing the phrase Carol Burnett on Netflix. But here is the former queen of CBS, now on a streaming services small screen for a sort of talk show with a group of child panelists; together, they hash out dilemmas facing adults of the modern world. Russell Peters will serve as co-host, while celebrity guests include Taraji P. Henson, Lisa Kudrow, Wanda Sykes and Finn Wolfhard.MY NEXT GUEST NEEDS NO INTRODUCTION on Netflix. This week, Tina Fey landed her first Tony nomination for the Broadway production of Mean Girls. I cried a little bit in the middle of Equinox this morning, and not because my workout was too hard  I do not push myself at the gym, she said in a Times interview. She and David Letterman have provided some memorable clips over the years  she even stripped down to her Spanx in her last Late Show appearance. This week, the two reconvene to discuss Mean Girls, 30 Rock and how to excel at improv comedy.Whats on TVTHE JAZZ AMBASSADORS 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). While Philip and Elizabeth Jennings of The Americans represent one level on which the Cold War was waged, this documentary illuminates another: jazz musicians, who were recruited by the United States government to travel the globe and serve as cultural ambassadors. Archival footage shows Louis Armstrong, Benny Goodman and Dizzy Gillespie performing around the world with their racially integrated bands. But their mission was soured by the fact that when they returned home, they still faced racism and segregation. Leslie Odom Jr. narrates.
