(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Orwellian nonsense, a Pell fund and Karl Marxs starring moment. Heres what you need to know: There is only one China in the world. All foreign companies doing business in China must purge any references to Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan that imply they are independent of China, the countrys foreign ministry decreed.The directive was first given to airlines. After the U.S. objected (an official called it Orwellian nonsense), China said all foreign companies would have to comply. Above, a youth group in Hong Kong on Friday conducted a Chinese-style military march.The friction adds to deepening U.S.-China tensions. Talks in Beijing last week ended with no agreement on averting a possible trade war.And the White House has accused China of aiming lasers at American jets on the Horn of Africa, causing minor injuries to two pilots eyes._____ Keeping the world guessing.President Trump has yet to reveal the site for his meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, though he said it had been chosen. North Korea accused the U.S. of ruining the mood ahead of the meeting.South Korea and Japan are worried about reports that Mr. Trump is considering shrinking the U.S. military presence on the Korean Peninsula.Domestically, public comments by Rudolph Giuliani, Mr. Trumps newest lawyer, are stirring doubt about what Mr. Trump knew about a payment to Stephanie Clifford, better known as the adult film star Stormy Daniels, whether other women were similarly paid hush money, and if he might try to evade questions from the special counsel Robert Mueller.(The actress made her own media appearance, on the comedy show Saturday Night Live.)_____ Pressure builds over attacks on Indian women.Indias news media has been dominated by accounts of horrific crimes against women since an 8-year-old Muslim girl was gang raped and murdered last month.The latest case involves a 16-year-old girl who was kidnapped and gang raped. When village leaders imposed a fine on the man believed to have orchestrated her abduction, officials said, he set her on fire, killing her. Above, relatives in mourning.Fifteen people have been taken into custody in the case, which has added to the heated public debate about the handling of sexual assaults.______ He treated me like an object.A former model, above, has denounced Nobuyoshi Araki, the Japanese photographer, famed for his photos of nude, bound women.The model, Kaori (who uses only her first name), said that she felt empowered by the global #MeToo movement to come forward with accusations that Mr. Araki, now 77, exploited and bullied her over their 16-year working relationship._____ A crisis in plain sight. Researchers say that more than a billion people around the world need eyeglasses but dont have them. (Some estimates put the figure closer to 2.5 billion.)Our reporter went to India, where experts say a significant number of Indias roughly 200,000 annual traffic deaths are tied to poor vision, to see how doctors, nonprofits and companies are trying to catapult the issue onto the global development agenda.Above, children registering for glasses in Panipat, India._____Business Avengers: Infinity War has become the fastest movie ever to gross $1 billion globally  and it still hasnt reached China, where its audience is expected to be mammoth. Thailands military government said it would end construction of a luxury housing development in Chiang Mai, a victory for protesters whose demonstrations were among the largest to take place since the militarys 2014 coup. Disney earnings, developers conferences at Google and Microsoft and a (possibly final) push on Nafta talks are among the headlines to watch for this week. Heres a snapshot of global markets.In the News Pakistans interior minister, Ahsan Iqbal, was shot in the arm in an assassination attempt. [The New York Times] A photographer recorded how Mosul, Iraq, is trying to recover from the bloody battle that ousted the Islamic State last year  turning to trash collectors to clear bodies and unexploded ordnance. [The New York Times] A bombing in Afghanistan killed at least 14 civilians lined up to register to vote. It was at least the sixth attack on registration efforts since last month, when the requirement to register in person was issued in anticipation of parliamentary elections in October. [The New York Times] Advertisements soliciting donations for a trust fund to pay the legal costs for Cardinal George Pells sexual-abuse defense have begun appearing in Catholic publications around the world. [The New Daily] A staggering blow to press freedom in Cambodia: Human Rights Watch denounced the sale of the Phnom Penh Post last week to a Malaysian company with reported links to the Cambodian government. [The Guardian] The hottest April day? Meteorologists say that a week ago, on the last day of the month, the temperature in Nawabshah, Pakistan, hit 50.2 degrees Celsius (122.4 degrees Fahrenheit). [The New York Times]Smarter LivingTips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: classic chicken Marsala, ready in 30 minutes. Feeling burned out? Here are three things that can help. Five cheap(ish) things you need for travel.Noteworthy Workers of the world, tune in! Marx Got It Right, a five-episode prime-time special on Chinese TV, is just one part of the governments sometimes clunky efforts to bring Karl Marx to millennials and restore the countrys communist underpinnings. New Zealands deadpan humor is the star of a series of ads created by the government and advocacy groups. The tourism agencys latest includes Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern investigating a conspiracy to keep the country off world maps. In memoriam: the visionary Sri Lankan filmmaker Lester James Peries, 99. He described his movies as the cinema of contemplation, in which the cameras eavesdrop on life to expose his characters psychology.Back StoryThe happy couple, one a British royal and the other a commoner. A much-anticipated May wedding.But this is not Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. It was Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, and Antony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer, who were married on May 6, 1960.Then as now, there was heightened interest across the Atlantic, and The Times had a front-page photo and story.Heres how we covered the day:We wrote about the crowds who waited to see the couple on the balcony of Buckingham Palace.There were tales of royal weddings that did not go smoothly and gifts from afar.More than a dozen short items covered the details of the day, including tiara trouble and a bomb scare.We had drawings of the guests and the clothes, including a going-away hat shaped like a souffl.And, finally, a television piece marveled at the BBCs coverage and noted, Thanks to videotape and jet airplanes, pictures of live quality were shown on North American screens only six to seven hours after the event had occurred in London.The couple split after 16 years.Sarah Anderson wrote Todays Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
