New TV shows, museum openings, film releases and concerts  its a lot to keep track of. Let us help you. For the week of May 6, seven events in New York and elsewhere not to be missed: Meghan + Harry = Many Hours of TVMay 11; fox.com. May 13; mylifetime.com; smithsonianchannel.com. May 14-18; pbs.org. Whats left to reveal about Meghan Markle and Prince Harry as they prepare to tie the knot on Saturday, May 19? Apparently, plenty.The hoopla begins on Friday, May 11, with Foxs Meghan Markle: An American Princess, which serves up dish from the journalist Piers Morgan; Prince Harrys biographer, Katie Nicholl; and Ms. Markles half sister, Samantha Grant, who so far has not been invited to share in the special day.On Sunday, May 13, Lifetime presents Harry & Meghan: A Royal Romance, a fictionalization of the couples fairy tale, while the Smithsonian Channel adds Ms. Markle to its Million Dollar American Princesses lineup.On Monday, May 14, PBS kicks off its five-night Royal Wedding Watch, helmed by Meredith Vieira and Matt Baker. And on Wednesday, May 16, NBC News unveils Inside the Royal Wedding: Harry and Meghan, anchored by Savannah Guthrie and Hoda Kotb.The wedding itself will air on multiple networks and stream online, starting in the wee hours leading up to the midday nuptials at St. Georges Chapel (thats 7 a.m. on the East coast), followed by a carriage procession back to Windsor Castle. That evening, CBS will recap the festivities  the dress, the pomp and circumstance, the zany fascinators  with Royal Romance: The Marriage of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. KATHRYN SHATTUCKPop: Beach Houses 7th LPMay 11; beachhousebaltimore.com. Listening to Beach House is like sinking into a familiar dream. Since making their debut in 2006, the Baltimore duo  comprising the singer Victoria Legrand and the guitarist Alex Scally, both of whom also play keyboards  have stayed true to their surreal, soft-edged, romantic sound. Their finest albums, including Devotion (2008) and Depression Cherry (2015), are a reminder that gradual evolution can be just as powerful as radical reinvention.All of which is to say that if you have enjoyed any of Beach Houses previous work, you will very likely love their seventh LP, appropriately titled 7 and released this Friday, May 11. The changes to their approach, as always, are incremental: a more prominent studio role for their live drummer, James Barone; gently mind-melting production assistance from the psychedelic expert Pete Kember (a.k.a. Sonic Boom); a beguiling new pop gloss, as heard on the singles Lemon Glow and Dark Spring. The effect is as transcendent as ever.New York fans can bask in the beauty when Beach Houses current tour reaches the city for a pair of shows on August 22 (United Palace Theater, in Washington Heights) and August 23 (Kings Theater, in Flatbush). SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSONDance: La MaMa Moves! FestivalMay 10-June 3; lamama.orgThe New York choreographer Jonathan Gonzlez brings a sorceress to life in Obeah. Lucie Gregoire, from Canada, offers Les choses dernire (The Last Things), a dance about a woman fighting for survival in a chaotic world inspired by a Paul Auster novel. And Adham Hafez, an Egyptian artist, explores questions about identity in To Catch a Terrorist.These are just three of 12 provocative works that will be unveiled at the La MaMa Moves! dance festival, now in its 13th year and held at La MaMas East Village theaters. Curated by Nicky Paraiso, the festival features two worthy off-site events as well: Secret Journey: Dont Call Them Dangerous, a symposium presented with Movement Research at Abrons Arts Center that gathers a group of artists, presenters and scholars who have faced issues dealing with immigration and displacement. And in Shine New York Traces  presented with the Berlin performance group Dock 11  the choreographer Douglas Dunn hosts a screening of rarely seen films at his SoHo studio by artists living in New York in the 1970s and 1980s. GIA KOURLASClassical: Chiara Quartets FarewellMay 12; metmuseum.org.After eighteen years together, the Chiara Quartet has decided to retire from full-time work: Its concert on Saturday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is billed as its final major performance. Although the members will go their separate ways as soloists and teachers, they will continue to reunite as a group for specific projects.The Chiara players have consistently embraced adventurous initiatives that push beyond the conventions of chamber music, including two recent by heart projects that involved performing and recording the complete quartets of Brahms and Bartk from memory.That exploratory streak will be on display for this last program, which includes Nico Muhlys 2011 quartet Diacritical Marks  a Chiara commission  and the local premiere of Philip Glasss chant-infused Piano Quintet Annunciation, with the pianist Paul Barnes, along with Beethovens monumental String Quartet in A minor, op. 132. WILLIAM ROBINTheater: Lois Smith in Peace for Mary FrancesMay 8-June 17; thenewgroup.org.Mary Francess children have children of their own, and grandchildren too, but theyve never outgrown calling her Mommy. On their lips, that word can sound like a caress  or like a petulant appeal from a toddler whose tantrums should have subsided long ago.In Lily Thornes debut drama, Peace for Mary Frances, directed by Lila Neugebauer for the New Group, the reliably magnificent Lois Smith plays the title role. Mary Frances is 90 and dying, which is fine with her. She is less O.K. with the messy state of her family. Its this fractured, fractious female circle that gathers around to take care of her, and to stake claims to her affection in her final weeks: Fanny (Johanna Day), her most beloved child and a volatile former heroin addict; Alice (J. Smith-Cameron), Fannys dutiful, dependable, resentful sister; and Alices grown daughters, Helen (Heather Burns) and Rosie (Natalie Gold), whose love for their grandmother is tender and deep. Mary Francess son (Paul Lazar) is largely absent, and willfully useless.Starting previews on Tuesday, May 8, in a world-premiere production at the Pershing Square Signature Center, its a play about mothers and their children, and the painful, jagged course that families can take. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHESArt: Nicholas Galanin in PhoenixThrough Sept. 3; heard.org. Nicholas Galanins work is powered by an explosive combination of unfiltered political provocation and lush materiality. The arresting effect is encapsulated by his title for a 2014 pair of hand-engraved plastic earrings: Accessorize with these timeless beauties! Hand-carved Native rape whistle earrings featuring a traditional Tlingit lovebirds design. The earrings are unusual, though, in needing even that much explanation.Take just two examples of Mr. Galanins incandescent method from his midcareer retrospective at Phoenixs Heard Museum: a taxidermied polar bear that seems to rise out of the floor (We Dreamt Deaf, 2015); and a mass-produced fake totem pole painted to match a room-filling installation of 19th-century fruit-themed wallpaper (Imaginary Indian, Totem). They deftly skip past the verbal mind to hit you right in the belly. WILL HEINRICHFilm: Michael Pearces BeastMay 11. When we first meet Moll (Jessie Buckley) in Michael Pearces Beast, shes a wallflower-ish 27-year-old living on the isle of Jersey. Wilting under a domineering mother, she flees her own birthday party after her sister steals the limelight. Then, after dancing the night away with a stranger at a local bar, Moll is saved from assault by Pascal (Johnny Flynn), a mysterious outsider whose habit of poaching rabbits lends him a peculiar odor  which she finds intoxicating.But Jersey is haunted by the horrific murders of young women, and Pascal is soon targeted as the prime suspect  prompting Moll to defend him, and unleashing a side of herself she has kept locked away for far too long.Ms. Buckley and Mr. Flynn, formidable British up-and-comers, smolder as the troubled, almost feral lovers in this debut feature, which is inspired by the so-called Beast of Jersey, a serial rapist who brutalized children in the 1960s on the isle where Mr. Pearce grew up. Beast opens on Friday, May 11, in New York and Los Angeles. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
