The remarkable run of song recitals in New York in recent months has at times felt like a relay of pairs of top-flight singers and pianists, many in time-honored Germanic repertory. Most recently, Mark Padmore and Paul Lewis, with songs by Schumann and Brahms to texts of Heine, handed off to Gerald Finley and Julius Drake, who filled the first half of their program at Alice Tully Hall on Wednesday evening with works by Beethoven and Schubert to texts of Goethe.But then Mr. Finley and Mr. Drake veered off sharply in the second half, with songs by Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff. Mr. Finley did a bit of standup from the stage, acknowledging some oddity in having himself, a Canadian bass-baritone, and Mr. Drake, a British pianist, perform Russian music for an American audience, but insisted that there had been definitely no collusion.Turning serious, he dedicated this part of the program to his dear, departed friend, the splendid Russian baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky, whose recordings had led him to a deeper understanding of Rachmaninoff, and who died in November. Mr. Finley obviously learned very well whatever lessons Mr. Hvorostovskys performances had to teach, to judge from the performance here. He sang with a plangency rivaling Mr. Hvorostovskys own, and rendered the love songs beautifully.But two numbers stood out: Fate, in which Rachmaninoff made sport with the so-called fate motto of Beethovens Fifth Symphony (Stuk, stuk, stuk, Mr. Finley knocked in every manner of expression, and finally  the end of your happiness has come!  without expression); and Christ is Risen, which imagines Christs reaction to what he would find in the world today, with brother hating brother: What bitter tears before the crowd would He sob!Mr. Finley has had longer experience with Tchaikovsky, and it paid off in the classic None but the Lonely Heart. Mr. Drake was everywhere Mr. Finleys equal, and he stood out on his own in Tchaikovskys Don Juans Serenade and in the postlude to Over Burning Ashes.Three touching Beethoven songs led up to the comic Song of the Flea in From Goethes Faust, where Mr. Finley and Mr. Drake tried to outdo each other for laughs. And seven Schubert songs, including the mini-drama Prometheus, pointed toward that composers Goethe masterpiece Erlknig before intermission. Mr. Finley hauntingly traced the wild ride on horseback  the agitation of father and child, fear and fading hope  right down to the literal last gasp: In his arms the child was dead.In another sharp turn, the program included motley built-in encores (three little folk-song-like things, Mr. Finley called them): Coplands Ching-a-Ring Chaw, Respighis My Hearts in the Highlands and Brittens The Crocodile. The Britten jape was especially diverting, with its pitch rising to match the sheer outlandishness of the tale.The performers continued more or less in kind with three actual encores: Barbers lovely Theres Nae Lark, Brittens rollicking Bird Scarers Song and Haydn Woods charming Roses of Picardy.In the end, it was quite a show of versatility, and the full house  some shouted bravos even before the start  lapped it up.
