Just as the Duplex opened its doors at 4 in the afternoon, Harry Arkell, 34, a tourist from the United Kingdom, took a seat at the bar and ordered a glass of red wine. The former marketing executive had recently quit his job, ended a relationship and completed a weeklong meditation camp upstate. He would soon be headed for Panama, but not before making a pit stop in New York.I was told by a friend the Duplex is an institution, he said. I came to see what it was about.In 1951 the Duplex opened in a makeshift space above a restaurant on Grove Street. It served as a cabaret theater for Broadway hopefuls and amateur comedians, including a young Joan Rivers  said Thomas Honeck, the theaters general manager. It was said Rivers was so bad at the time, they would only let her go last, he said.After going through a discothque phase in the 70s, the Duplex returned to its cabaret roots, moving to 61 Christopher Street in 1989. On the ground floor, there is a simple piano bar with black vinyl seating that was purchased from a former diner. The wall behind the bar is covered in posters for shows that have long passed. Many of the bartenders have vocal chops, so it is not unusual to find some of them singing musical numbers from Kinky Boots or pop songs by Elton John or Ariana Grande.From the Seventh Avenue and Christopher Street intersection, passers-by can glimpse an often rowdy and enthusiastic crowd singing through its many French doors.Perhaps the staying power of the Duplex is that it has managed to embrace the changing demographics of the neighborhood (the West Village is not exactly as artsy and alternative as it used to be) without losing its cultural identity.The cabaret and piano bar bore witness to the gay rights movement of the 60s and 70s. It is on the same block as the Stonewall Inn, where the Stonewall rebellion took place, and across the street from the Stonewall Monument, which became part of the National Park System in 2016.For young people in the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community, the Duplex continues to serve as a haven.Taylor-Rey, 28, began bartending here after leaving her hometown in Connecticut. I came out to my mom, but I didnt really have the opportunity to find out who I was there, she said. Im living my best life now.And yet, the crowds are more mixed than ever.We cater to tourists, bridge and tunnel, and neighborhood locals, said Tony DiCicco, who has owned the Duplex since 2004. We want it to be accepting.But the old guard is still around. On a Wednesday evening, William David Moye, 48, a real estate agent at Bond, sat at the bar in the second-floor lounge, where the cabaret stage sits tucked in an alcove. Without a word, a rum and Coke appeared in front of him.Hes been a regular since 1992 and has witnessed night life in the West Village change. There was a lot of gay bashing then. People would come here to beat us up, Mr. Moye said. Now there are bachelorette parties  it still feels like home to me, its just that homes changed a little bit.Stephen Cardino, 59, a fashion director, looks forward to joining his friends for happy hour every Friday. He said that despite changes in gay night life along Christopher Street, the Duplex hasnt changed much.I started going here when I met my husband. For the next 16 years, it became our place before date night, he said. And when he passed two years ago, I continued that tradition. His friends became mine.
