Season 2, Episode 10, FUBUIn the present day, Al and Earn have come to a crossroads. Als ready to level up in his career and Earn is little more than dead weight.FUBU offers the first substantial glimpse into their past, revealing that Al has a decades-old history of carrying his cousin.This week, were flashing back to the late 90s, where a teenage Earn is stuck shopping with his mother. As any bored kid would do, he wanders off to explore something more interesting than down market home dcor (though hes a little long in the tooth for playfully plowing through the racks the way he does). He cant believe his luck when he stumbles upon a neon yellow FUBU jersey, a rare hip-hop fashion find amid the stores non-designer dreck.The next morning, Earns so eager to show off his newly-purchased status symbol that hes wide-eyed and alert before his alarm clock even sounds. He grins all the way to the school bus stop, no doubt triggering instant-onset nostalgia for anyone who ever cherished that adolescent fashion first  be it a piece of real jewelry, a pair of de rigueur sneakers or a designer purse.He arrives at school to a chorus of exactly the kind of external validation hed been craving. More than just impressing his peers, he manages to get a smile and a compliment from his crush, an epic feat for a teen who hasnt yet infiltrated the in-crowd.His swelling ego gets punctured by the entrance of classmate Devon, whos wearing the same shirt. But not exactly the same, and after the class clown notices and crows that one of the boys must be sporting a knockoff, the question of Who has the fake FUBU? becomes a source of schoolwide intrigue.While Earns stewing in his anxiety  because he knows his is the likely counterfeit  his cousin is in the principals office, keeping calm in the face of weighty allegations.Do you know why youre here today, Alfred? the principal asks.Racism, Al says nonchalantly. Not everybodys gonna like me.A fellow student has accused him of stealing, but the charge is small stuff that Al refuses to sweat. He knows exactly which loophole to exploit in order to avoid punishment and gets off the hook with ease. From this we learn three things: Even in his youth, Al was plain-spoken and blunt; hes a veteran at hustling contraband; and hes long-since figured out the system and his role in it.Earn possesses none of this prowess and thats why his day continues to be a stomach-churner. Even as hes flexing his brain power in biology class (Youre pretty smart, his cute female lab partner tells him), he shows hes clueless when it comes to maneuvering the schools social minefields.If its fake, everybodys gonna roast me  forever, he says to a friend, dreading the cruel nicknames hell have to endure.Being white and, thus, not beholden to the same code of cultural conduct, the friend simply shrugs and says, It doesnt seem like a big deal to me. Ive worn this shirt twice this week.Everyone else seems fixated on Earns designer drama, from the object of his affection to upperclassmen to cafeteria workers. FUBU got its start by promoting a sense of black unity  its an acronym for For Us, By Us  but that message fell on deaf ears here. Earns peers were determined to delineate between the haves and have-nots and in order to protect himself from being outed as the latter, he needed that name-brand as armor.And when a single loose thread threatened to unravel everything, he turned to Alfred for counsel.Im not cool like you, Earn says, scanning the hallway for oncoming tormentors. (He tells Al the shirt came from the sale rack at Marshalls, though it looked more like a secondhand store than a discount retailer.) What should I do? Im freakin out!Weve seen this dynamic before in Money Bag Shawty, when Earn couldnt even buy respect. He repeatedly turns to Al to help him obtain the street cred thats clearly been eluding him his whole life. Wise beyond his years, young Al recommends denying the shirt is phony, regardless of what any bullies claim.Confidence is key, he tells him.As ever, Earn hears Al, but doesnt listen to him. When the resident style aficionado, Johnny, fingers him as the fake  Devon earned authenticity points for his shirts Made in China tag  Earn braces himself for a barrage of ridicule.Which is when Al comes to his rescue, flipping the script on Johnnys ruling with some of that aforementioned confidence (as well as a little racism).Of course this fools gonna say Made in China. Hes Chinese, Al says. Its sound enough reasoning for the easily-swayed crowd and they set off hazing Devon relentlessly. (Im not Chinese, Im Filipino, Johnny clarifies, but no one cares.)Theres no heartwarming family-bonding moment afterward. In fact, the cousins barely even share a glance after this entire exchange. Earn simply slinks off to the school bus, gray hoodie zipped all the way to the top, and watches silently as Devon takes a heaping helping of undeserved humiliation.The next day, its revealed that Devon committed suicide. In addition to the hazing, hed been coping with his parents divorce; the combination proved too much for him to bear. The class clown stifles a giggle, the biology teacher holds back tears and Earn just sits there wordlessly blinking, a habit hes kept up over the years.He arrives home to a concerned mother and aunt, whove heard about the death. As they clip coupons, they rattle off life advice to him and Al, whos watching TV in the next room.People will bully you your whole life, if you let em, Als mother says. You gotta stand up for yourself.You and your cousin gotta look out for each other, Earns mother adds.As it turns out, theyve been bound to this advice for too long and, lately, its been to Als detriment. Earn has spent years faking it, but has yet to make it. And now, seeing how long Al has had his back, its clear why he was reluctant to work with Earn in the first place and is eager to finally shake him off.Extra Credit The period setting meant Throwback Thursday was in full effect musically, with tracks by Tracy Chapman, The Pharcyde, the recently-departed Craig Mack, Nas (with Lauryn Hill) and even a late-80s hit by Al B. Sure! flooding this episode. Though there is a broad mishmash of 90s apparel and music, it seems safe to carbon date the year of this flashback as 1998, judging by the Outkast Aquemini poster hanging near Earns bed. Thats also the year that Daymond Johns streetwear label hit its peak. Its surprising to learn that Al was enrolled in JROTC. He doesnt seem the type to go in for all the programs rules and rigorousness. There must have been some Bibby-ish shenanigans going on behind the scenes because the class clowns haircut went from Fresh Prince fade during one scene to angular Bobby Brown asymmetry in the next. We need a Denisha minisode. The auxiliary bio class characters 180-degree turn from being despondent and combative to vivacious and overeager deserves a story of its own. You are a black man in America. And when you meet people, you need to look good, Earns mom cautions, instructing him to wear a suit at his upcoming piano lesson. Your clothes are important. Between school and home, hes getting two different takes on respectability politics. A morbid hot take: Though he may have lost the taste for it by now, the coast is probably clear for Earn to wear that second FUBU shirt his mother picked up for him.
