Every year since 2010 we have invited teenagers around the world to add The New York Times to their summer reading lists, and, so far, over 30,000 have.At a time when breaking-news alerts are as constant as concerns about fake news, teachers and students alike may feel that keeping up with a reliable source of information is more important than ever. We hope our 10-week contest can make that easy.But we also hope students will realize that reading The Times is fun. As youll see in the guidelines below, literally anything published on NYTimes.com in 2018 is fair game. We dont care if you choose a piece about politics or polar bears, baseball or Black Panther, food, fashion, Fortnite or Flyball; we just care about why you chose it.Interested? The contest runs from June 15 to Aug. 24, and all the details are below. In a nutshell, though: Every Friday we ask students, What interested you most in The Times this week? Why? You then have until the following Friday to answer, when a team of Times journalists choose their favorite responses, and we publish them here.Post any questions you might have in the comments or write us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com. You can also watch our webinar on summer and independent reading to learn more.__________Heres how it works: The contest runs from June 15 to Aug. 24. Every Friday beginning June 15, we will publish a post asking the same two questions: What interested you most in The Times this week? Why? You can always find that link in an update at the top of this page. It will also appear in this column. Anyone 13 to 19 years old from anywhere in the world can post an answer any week until Friday, Aug. 24, and contestants can choose from any Times article, essay, video, interactive, podcast or photograph published in 2018, on any topic they like. Every Tuesday starting July 3 we will announce winners from a previous week and publish their writing. To get an idea of the breadth of topics students have chosen in the past  from refugees and post-truth politics to power napping and junk food  you can read the work of our 2017 winners here, and our 2010-2016 winners here. Scroll down to find more details and tips, the most important of which are also on this handy PDF. More questions? Here are some that have been frequently asked over the years, but please post anything else youd like to know in the comments, or write to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com, and well answer you there.Q. What kinds of responses are you looking for?A. We dont care what you choose or whether you loved or hated it; what we care about is what you have to say about why you picked it.If you dont believe us, scroll through our 2017 winners, or, via our old blog, view the work of winners from 2010 to 2016.They have written on weighty topics like gender, race and identity, space exploration and 21st-century concentration camps, but they have also written on Beyonc, Disney shows, bagels, running and Jon Stewart withdrawal.Whatever the subject, youll see that the best pieces year after year make both personal connections to the news and go beyond the personal to discuss the broader questions and ideas that the topic raises.So whether you were moved by an article, enlightened by an essay, bowled over by a photo, irked by an editorial or inspired by a video, find something in The Times that genuinely interests you and tell us why, as honestly and originally as you can.Q. What are the rules?A. First, here is a PDF of the key rules and details in this post. Please share. We will post the same questions every Friday, starting June 15. Each week we will ask, What interested you most in The Times this week? Why? That is where you should post your picks (and reasons) any time until the next Friday. Then we will close that post to comments and open a new one with the same questions. That means that students can write in on any day until Friday, Aug. 24, at 7 a.m. Eastern when the contest ends.As soon as the contest starts, we will keep an up-to-date link to that weeks question at the top of this page. You can choose from anything published in the print paper or on NYTimes.com in 2018, including videos, graphics, slide shows and podcasts. Feel free to participate every week, but we allow only one submission per person per week. The contest is open to teenagers only  anyone from 13 to 19 years old  from anywhere in the world. Our commenting system allows responses up to 1,500 characters, which is somewhere between 250 and 300 words. Make sure to provide us with the full URL or headline (for example, Review: Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Raises the Bar for Broadway Magic or https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/22/theater/review-harry-potter-and-the-cursed-child-raises-the-bar-for-broadway-magic.html).Q. Who will be judging my work?A. The Learning Network staff, plus a team of as-yet-to-be-named New York Times journalists.Q. When should I check to see whether my submission won?A. Every Tuesday from July 3 to Sept. 4, we will publish a previous weeks winner or winners in a separate article you can find here. We will also celebrate the winners on Twitter and Facebook.Q. How do I participate in this contest if I dont have a digital subscription?A. NYTimes.com has a digital subscription system in which readers have free access to five articles each month. If you exceed that limit, you will be asked to become a digital subscriber.One thing you should know, however, is that all Learning Network posts for students, as well as all Times articles linked from them, are accessible without a digital subscription. That means that if you use any of the articles we have linked to on our site for summer reading, they will not count as part of the five-article limit. And remember: You can use anything published in 2018.Q. How do I prove to my teacher that I participated?A. When you comment, make sure to check the box that asks if you would like to be emailed when your comment is published.If you do so, the system will send you a link to your comment, which you can use to show your teacher, your parents, your friends or anyone else youd like to impress.Please note that you will not get an email until the comment has been approved, which may take up to 48 hours over weekends.Another method? Some teachers ask students to take screenshots of their comments before they hit submit, then gather those all together at the end of the summer.Q. How can teachers, librarians and parents use this challenge?A. Through the years, adults have told us over and over that participating in this contest has made their students both more aware of and more interested in whats going on in the world. Many see it as a low-stakes way to help teenagers start building a news-reading habit.If thats not enough of a reason to assign it, our contest is also an easy way to add more nonfiction to your students reading lists  and to encourage teenagers to make their own choices about what to read, as anything published in The Times in 2018 is fair game.Participating also meets the recommendations given in this joint statement on independent reading given by the International Reading Association, the National Council of Teachers of English, and the Canadian Childrens Book Centre.But maybe the most compelling reason to assign this contest is what students themselves say about it. Reflecting on participating in 2017, a teenager named Emma Weber, from London, echoed what many have told us over the years:What interested me this week in the Times? There was a lot to reflect on, as usual: Barcelona, Charlottesville, and, on a more cheerful note, the solar eclipse. Despite the plethora of options, I am writing about the Summer Reading Contest itself and how it has interested, and transformed, me over the past ten weeks.Prior to this summer, the only writing I did was for school assignments or Google searches. And if I did get around to it, I never reread what I wrote. Thats why, as the weeks went on, I surprised myself when I began double and triple checking my comments for mistakes, of which there were far more than expected!Another transformation is my newfound interest in the news. I used to be the kind of person who opened a newspaper and went straight to the puzzles section, and though that may be unchanged, I now feel compelled to read a few articles that catch my eye too. In return, exposing myself to current affairs has fine-tuned my political opinions, and through consistent writing I learned to express them in a way that accentuates them.The result? I feel grounded in my views and understand whats going on in the world. Its amazing what a change 1,500 characters a week make.Thank you for making this contest a hit year after year, and please spread the word that its back for a ninth season.Good luck!__________Questions? Please write to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com.We will add the link to the top of this post on June 16, when the contest begins. And if you watch our webinar, youll get many more tips, including ideas for practicing in class before you send students away for summer break, and ideas for keeping their independent news-reading habits alive back in the classroom this fall.
