Our guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.Pop & RockALICE IN CHAINS at Manhattan Center Hammerstein Ballroom (May 7-8, 8 p.m.). Grunges living legacy seems more precarious than ever since Chris Cornells untimely death last year. But Seattles Alice in Chains is reassurance in band form, a fixture of the genres heyday enduring through the loss of their lead singer Layne Staley in 2002. Thirty-one years in, the group has no interest in running on nostalgia alone: Theyre touring ahead of their first album in five years, an as-yet-untitled project due out this summer. Look for new material amid grunge-metal classics like Rooster and No Excuses. 212-279-7740, mc34.com/upcomingCAM at Babys All Right (May 8, 6 p.m.). Aesthetically somewhere between countrys self-proclaimed outsiders and its stadium-filling stars, Cam is stuck with an unenviable task: finding an audience for her timeless, unpretentious country-pop. On top of all that, shes a woman and, as such, anathema to country radio programmers. But shell reward those who seek out this intimate show with her arresting voice and a Nashville sound that doesnt necessarily wear its twang on its sleeve. Shes working to replicate the success of the sneakily catchy 2015 ballad Burning House with her current single, Diane, the Dolly Parton-endorsed answer song to Jolene. 718-599-5800, babysallright.comCAMILA CABELLO at Terminal 5 (May 4, 8 p.m.). Youve heard Ms. Cabello before, even if you dont recognize her name: The singer graduated from the X Factor-created girl group Fifth Harmony to a solo career thats already hit laden just two years in. Never Be the Same, an airy power ballad about addictive love, is running pop radio right now, as did her infectious, salsa-tinged Havana a few months earlier. Tickets to this Terminal 5 show are available only through resale sites, but if you want to see her from anything less than a stadium- or arena-lengths distance, nows your last chance for the foreseeable future. 212-582-6600, terminal5nyc.comE.P.M.D. at Highline Ballroom (May 10, 9 p.m.). Any of New York hip-hops real devotees will tell you that homage is owed to its musical ancestors. What better way to do just that than to attend the 50th birthday party of Parrish Smith, better known as M.C. P.M.D. of the pioneering Long Island rap trio E.P.M.D.? At this hometown celebration, youll find golden-age hip-hop thats more fit for hip swiveling than head nodding thanks to its liberal sampling of danceable funk. And theres another reason to raise the roof: This year is the 30th anniversary of the groups debut album, Strictly Business. 212-414-5994, highlineballroom.comHAIM at Radio City Music Hall (May 4-5, 8 p.m.). The weeks most jubilant concerts will undoubtedly be at Radio City, where the Haim sisters will spend two nights performing their irresistible, beachy pop-rock. With endlessly bright combinations of harmonies, synths and straightforward refrains designed for singalongs, their music is perfect for the suddenly (finally) springlike weather. The rapper and singer Lizzo will get the party started with the kind of self-actualized anthems that could make a person move mountains: Boss up and change your life/You can have it all, no sacrifice, she sings on the 2016 single Good as Hell. 212-465-6741, msg.com/radio-city-music-hallKING KRULE at Manhattan Center Hammerstein Ballroom (May 4, 8 p.m.). Archy Marshall makes music thats often described as punk jazz  but youd be forgiven for not having any idea what that means. The London native, who performs under the moniker King Krule, does combine punks crunch and jazzs melodic explorations, but his work is also grounded in R&B and, on his most recent album, The Ooz, deconstructed early rock. Think Elvis, slowed down and distorted by a heavy veil of reverb. Toeing the line between pop song structure and total improvised chaos, Mr. Marshall makes occasionally alien sounds that never lose their more visceral, sensual pleasures. 212-279-7740, mc34.com/upcomingSANGO at Knockdown Center (May 4, 8:30 p.m.). Those who miss chop up the soul Kanye can get their fill of reworked soul  and R&B, and trap, and funk carioca  in the beats of the producer Sango, who will be appearing in Queens to support his new album, In the Comfort Of. The Washington State native brings West Coast ease to his assortment of international inspirations for atmospheric music that refuses to dissolve into the background. The result is cerebral and undeniably hip, but it never strays too far from its danceable core. 718-489-6285, knockdown.centerNATALIE WEINERJazzKENNY BARRON QUINTET at Jazz Standard (through May 6, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Mr. Barrons talents on the piano as an accompanist, a composer-arranger and a svelte, gear-jumping soloist are fully apparent on his new album, Concentric Circles. Surprisingly, it is his first as a leader for Blue Note Records; on it, the 74-year-old National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master is joined by an intergenerational cast of stellar side musicians: Dayna Stephens on tenor saxophone, Mike Rodriguez on trumpet, Kiyoshi Kitagawa on bass and Johnathan Blake on drums. That band is at Jazz Standard this week, welcoming the albums release.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comLAKECIA BENJAMIN at Joes Pub (May 10, 9:30 p.m.). Ms. Benjamin is a fine young alto saxophonist with a luminescent, liquid tone and a devotion to gregarious grooves. Her new album, Rise Up, pushes ahead with her mission of creating earnest, energizing music that mingles Neville Brothers funk, classic hip-hop and 1980s jazz fusion  while addressing the present moment. She appears here to celebrate the albums release.212-967-7555, publictheater.orgZAKIR HUSSAIN AND DAVE HOLLANDS CROSSCURRENTS at Jazz at Lincoln Center (May 4-5, 8 p.m.). The Indian tabla player Zakir Hussain and the British-born bassist Dave Holland have been at the top of their respective fields since the 1970s. Mr. Holland is one of the most inventive, broad-ranging bassists in jazz; Mr. Hussain plays with fellow heroes of Indian classical music, as well as a cross section of international stars. Recently the two masters have come together in Crosscurrents, a band devoted to whats now an old idea  the fusion of rock, jazz and Indian classical  but with its own sparkling allure. The group includes the saxophonist Chris Potter, the guitarist Sanjay Divecha, the pianist Louiz Banks, the drummer Gino Banks and the vocalist Shankar Mahadevan.212-721-6500, jazz.orgCAMILA MEZA AND AARON GOLDBERG at Greenwich House Music School (May 10, 8 p.m.). Ms. Meza is a Chilean vocalist and guitarist whose music tends to juxtapose big-stepping rhythmic movement on the lower end with the weightless assurance of her voice. Here, she joins Mr. Goldberg, a virtuoso American pianist with a knack for well-greased propulsion, in a performance of Latin American folk songs and anthems of resistance. The concert is part of Greenwich Houses Uncharted music series.212-242-4770, greenwichhouse.orgMARC RIBOTS CERAMIC DOG AND NIK BRTSCHS RONIN at Le Poisson Rouge (May 6, 7:30 p.m.). Ceramic Dog just released a restless, rambunctious second album, YRU Still Here? On it, the stalwart downtown guitarist Marc Ribot spits out his frustrations with the Trump administration, through caustic guitar thrashes and taunting vocals. This double-bill concert celebrates the release of that album and of Awase, by Nik Brtschs quartet Ronin. Mr. Brtsch, a Swiss pianist, makes repetitious, accrual-based music of clean power and firm insistence. Ronin will play first, followed by Ceramic Dog.212-505-3474, lpr.comDENNY ZEITLIN WITH BUSTER WILLIAMS AND MATT WILSON at Mezzrow (May 4-5, 8 and 9:30 p.m.). Mr. Zeitlin, who turned 80 last month, has always kept his crisp, rich harmonies fastened to crisscrossing cadences. What might first scan as easygoing cocktail jazz is a much headier concoction. The pianist began making this kind of music for Columbia Records in the 1960s, then eventually roved into jazz-rock fusion and electronic experiments (just last year, he released Expedition, a remarkable album of synthesizer excursions with the drummer George Marsh). But hes never given up making bracing original music in an acoustic trio format, and recently hes done it with two A-list collaborators: Mr. Williams, a bassist, and Mr. Wilson, a drummer. Theyre featured on Mr. Zeitlins fine new album, Wishing on the Moon, and they join him here.646-476-4346, mezzrow.comGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOEditors PickABASEMENT 37 at Max Fish (May 7, 7 p.m.). This installment of the monthly underground revue at the storied Lower East Side bars basement might mess with your head in more ways than one. Not only is it happening a week earlier than usual, but it also features the musical-theater-of-the-deliciously-absurd stylings of Sugarlife. Imagine an update of a Weimar Republic cabaret act in which the chanteur takes his makeup cues from What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? and his fashion sense from a 1960s housewife on the verge. While Sugarlifes lead singer Christian Dautresme gives voice to modern angst, his band members  Stuart Popejoy on keyboard and bass, Takuya Nakamura on synthesizer and trumpet, and Danny Tunick on drums and vibraphone  back him with a broad palette of modern music, which seems firmly rooted in the pop that prevailed during the formative years of Generation X. No two Sugarlife shows are alike and Mr. Dautresme is not afraid to free-associate in audience members faces, so the cozy confines of Max Fishs basement should add an extra touch of unpredictability. Monday nights lineup also includes the entrancing, spooky electronica of Decimus, as well as Riki Hidaka and Kitchen. facebook.com/abasementsonicsDANIELLE DOWLING
