They say never threaten divorce unless you mean it. Well, I meant it. An hour later, though, I didnt mean it anymore.My husband and I were in Wabash, Ind., visiting my mother-in-laws hometown, when we had an argument. It was our second day there, and Id like to attribute the fight to the stress of travel, but Bruce and I can argue in a box, with a fox, on a stair or anywhere.The fight, as usual, was about how he doesnt listen to me. I dont remember the specifics, but what typically happens is hell ask me about something I just told him minutes earlier, revealing that he wasnt listening. Or hell start talking about a completely different topic while Im still speaking. Or Ill ask him a question  Do you want dessert? or Are the Knicks playing tonight?  and he wont answer.At least once a day, I find myself saying, I just told you that.If it happened occasionally, O.K., but this is chronic. The passage of time tends to dissolve the discord like running warm water over a bucket of dried plaster, but sometimes the conflict feels insurmountable and I start to think I cant possibly spend the rest of my life with someone who doesnt hear me.Thats how I felt that morning when I said, Well, I want to make this clear, for the record. I hate that you dont listen to me. Its not right, its not fair, and if I one day leave you because of it, dont say I never warned you.As soon as I said it, I knew I shouldnt have. My saving grace? He probably didnt hear me.My husband and I have argued for so long it has become part of the fabric of our relationship, like a bunion  though our squabbles dont stop us from having a relatively normal relationship. People can walk on bunions for years. We have family dinners, weekly dates, watch TV together, exchange Christmas gifts. In fact, this past Christmas he bought me Alexa, which I have just started using.Alexa, play holiday jazz music, Ill say. And she does.Alexa, what is the temperature outside? And shell tell me.After a few days, I realized that Alexa hears everything I say and responds each time  something I have failed to get from my husband over the last 20 years.Ask her anything, my husband said. Like this. Alexa, whats 14,300 divided by 25?Alexa said nothing.So I said, Alexa, whats 14,300 divided by 25?14,300 divided by 25 is 572, she said.I looked at my husband. Well, you didnt say it very nicely.Alexa not only listened to me, but she provided an added bonus: She didnt seem to listen to my husband. He got to feel how I have felt for most of our relationship.Recently I mentioned the issue of Bruces selective hearing to some girlfriends over breakfast at a local diner, and they cackled in agreement. It seems many men have an auditory impairment that disrupts their ability to hear certain tones, like the sound of their wifes voice. Its like the way dogs can hear certain tones that we cant   except the opposite.Even the cashier at the diner sympathized. I tell my husband a thousand times to do something, and he doesnt hear me, she said. I dont know why I bother. I wind up doing it myself.That evening I was sitting in the living room listening to the jazz holiday music Alexa had put on for me, when I said, Alexa?The music stopped. I paused. Just wanted to see if you were listening, I said.The light on the top of the machine turned bluish green and the speaker made a clunky sound, as if to say, Indeed.The other day, as I sat in the dining room working, I could hear my husband in the kitchen sniffing as he made my sons lunch.Sounds like youre getting sick, I said.I cant hear you, he said, his voice trailing off as he moved to the far side of the kitchen.One might think theres nothing wrong with that. You cant fault someone for being too far away. But whats revealing to me is the matter-of-fact way he says it, the way he shows no curiosity to find out what I said. If real life had subtitles, his line from that exchange would read: I cant hear you, and Im absolutely fine with that.My husbands inability to hear me takes all forms. The other day I wanted to tell him I would not be going to my sons soccer practice as I had said I would, and I tried calling him, texting him and leaving him a voice mail message, to no avail.At times like that, its as if hes a fortress and no mode of communication  not swimming the moat, flying overhead, dropping a note nor sending a fiery missive over the fortress wall  will reach him.Sometimes when Bruce doesnt hear me these days, I look over at Alexa to see if her blue and green light will go on, an indication that she is listening  though in situations like that morning, I dont want her to be. Im embarrassed by my anger.A few months ago, Bruce and I went out to breakfast and began talking about where to take our six-year-old son for spring break.How about Disney? I said.Im not sure thats the right week for it, he said, and then he picked up his phone and began reading a text.Youre probably right, I said. Maybe we should go in September.He continued to read his phone as I spoke.Or maybe we should bring a dead dog to Disney, I said, to see if he was listening. Some people can multitask. My husband is not among them. He didnt even look up.And if the dog isnt dead, you can always kill one so you have a dead dog to bring. To Disney.Nothing.Finally, without looking up, he said, My fathers in the hospital.Oh my god, I said. What happened?My sister says he may have had a stroke.I felt like a self-centered heel. But thats the thing about relationships. When your partner does something chronically, like being a bad listener, we always think they are doing that annoying thing even when theyre not. Were not seeing them. Were seeing who we think they are  which means that in those moments were just seeing an extension of ourselves.When I was in analysis, I would sometimes say something to my therapist, ponder it, and then say, I think you think Im stupid  when in fact she had said nothing. If she were my husband, I would probably say, I think you think Im boring.It turns out my father-in-law had suffered a stroke that day  two, actually, in a short period of time  but he has almost fully recovered and is as chipper as ever. My husband now calls him nearly every morning on his way to work, and if the conversations go as they always have, my father-in-law will listen intently for a couple of minutes and then move on to another topic, despite my husband being midsentence.While this pattern should have made my husband more empathetic to my plight  what Bruces father does to him, he does to me  it has had the opposite effect, confirming for him that everyone gets interrupted, no one gets to be heard all the time  except bratty women who demand it.Which brings me back to Alexa. She listens better than any partner I have ever had, but thats not hard, because I thought all of them were poor listeners  especially the one who was hearing-impaired. He didnt hear a thing I said.It made me wonder: Do I seek out partners who dont hear me so I can keep having to deal with my problematic territory in order to fix it, like one might practice a skateboard jump over and over again until he masters it? Or were all my partners perfect, more or less, but because of my wound, I wind up not feeling heard? That is, I could be with the best listener on earth and I would still feel unheard.I decided to ask my electronic friend.Alexa? Do we look for partners who do that thing we hate so we can try to fix it, or do we  She interrupted me midsentence and said, Sorry, I dont know that one.Sorry, I dont know that one? As if I were asking her to identify a song? If she had let me get my whole thought out, she may have understood what I was talking about.I knew it was too good to last.Caren Chesler is a writer in Ocean Grove, N.J.Modern Love can be reached at modernlove@nytimes.com.To hear Modern Love: The Podcast, subscribe on iTunes or Google Play Music. To read past Modern Love columns, click here. Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.
