Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.The front page of The New York Times has been home, in the past, to its fair share of articles for the wealthy and privileged reader. Among them, news of jewel thefts and jewel misplacements, inheritances, socialite misadventures, the more than occasional obituary of the eccentric and wealthy gentlewoman, and seemingly endless news about Harvard and Yale (including games, races, debates and, in 1908, a students elopement at the top of the page).When it comes to writing accessibly, some beats make it tougher than others. Though more than a century removed from any of the aforementioned articles, Times reporters still write about topics that range from the expensive and luxurious (see: $8,000 dresses) to the fanciful (see: royal wedding) to the blatantly impractical (see: tiaras). On one level, journalism means taking readers to rooms they may never have access to. On another level, an excess of such coverage can feel impenetrable, or even exclusionary  what the former public editor Margaret Sullivan might have once included in her Monocle Meter.Many editors today grapple with that balance.As Choire Sicha, editor of the Styles desk, explained, Some of the things Styles historically covers  perfume, expensive furniture, paintings, luxury clothing, tiaras and antiques were his examples  are de facto exclusionary because of their price, and some are exclusionary because not everyone wears a tiara to work.Styles is one example of a desk endlessly adjusting its scope and its audience. One goal for the desk in the near future is to cover more of how normal people get gussied up to go out on the street all over the world, as Mr. Sicha put it. At the same time, he added: We dont cover opera or high fashion just for the people who can buy a $12,000 dress. We cover this so that everyone can have a window into it.Mondays Met Gala was one example. The Met Gala is out of reach for everyone, except the 550 or so people that are carefully selected by Anna Wintour to attend and have $30,000 to spend on a ticket, said Joanna Nikas, an editor for Styles. But, she added, Styles brings readers inside with live briefings, Instagram posts, photos and more to give people access to a world that so few inhabit.Covering theater can often work the same way, according to Jesse Green, a theater critic for The Times. He doesnt include price in his reviews (but noted that The Times does often highlight cheaper alternatives, such as Off Broadway productions). I spent a lot of my younger years reading reviews of things I was highly unlikely to see and found the experience enjoyable and educational, Mr. Green said. I trust that readers still feel that way today.On the Travel desk, practicality and mass appeal are baked into most recommendations. While wider travel reporting can certainly skew expensive and luxurious, the Travel editor Dan Saltzstein said that the team mostly leaves that arena to its competitors, especially amid a growing focus on the online audience.The average print reader is more affluent than the average online reader, and now that were focusing on our online audience, it makes you think a little harder about who is actually going to be reading this, Mr. Saltzstein said.Columns like Frugal Traveler, Luxury for Less and 36 Hours focus on recommendations that are affordable and offer a nuanced, yet generalist, introduction to a destination. When writers go to expensive cities, they try to get creative  like Lucas Peterson, the Frugal Traveler columnist, who eschewed high-end sushi in Tokyo for a Michelin-starred ramen meal that cost about $11. The desk also makes it a point not to frown upon tourist hot spots.There are people who really like the touristy stuff, Mr. Saltzstein said. Theres nothing wrong with it.And, as with any beat, the language around the story can feel exclusionary.The language of wine, as Eric Asimov, The Timess wine critic, has long argued, is unnecessarily pretentious. Wine should be a staple in all households, by his philosophy, and a good bottle neednt cost more than $15; but the complex vocabulary around the American wine market makes that difficult. Its the notion that we have to describe wine with this esoteric grocery list of aromas and flavors, he said.For Mr. Sicha, even the language of journalism itself can feel exclusionary. He believes the word article is one example, and finds it a boring word for which story, feature and investigation are much livelier and more imaginative counterparts. As Mr. Sicha put it, Death to articles.Why is it important for things like tiaras, travel and Burgundy to be accessible?Its not, Mr. Asimov said. Certainly not on a survival level, but wine is one of the pleasures of life. Like good food, good cooking, good friends and good art, it helps make life more enjoyable.
