Your partner proposed. You said yes. Now its time to plan the wedding  hopefully, with as little stress as possible  from engagement ring to thank you notes.Stay home tonight, make yourself a cup of tea or pour a glass of wine, grab your smartphone and get to the work of making a memorable day.There are a multitude of websites, many with their own free apps (available for both Android and IOS devices), that are dedicated to every aspect of weddings, so making arrangements need not be a total time-consuming burden. Group chats with the bridal party can help with decisions and once they are made, you can pay online and move on to the next item on your checklist.Here are a few helpful sites to get the ball rolling.CHOOSE A DIAMOND AND SETTING for an engagement ring. Diamond Hedge makes it possible, and fun, to virtually try on rings (via selfies) using its app, and to customize them with various settings, stone shapes and sizes. Diamond Hedge partners with a number of diamond companies around the world, so you can compare prices at various online dealers.VENUES AND VENDORS for the wedding can be chosen through WeddingWire. This includes businesses handling just about every wedding-related detail  photographers, florists, DJs, caterers and hotels, to name just a few. You can also locate services for hair and makeup. The site even allows you to keep a guest list and create a seating plan for the reception dinner.FOR OUT-OF-TOWN WEDDINGS, Wedding Mapper provides useful navigation tools for you and your guests. The site offers detailed maps of almost any place in the world. This allows you to not only plan your wedding, but also suggest places for guests to stay, eat, shop and sightsee, and to provide directions. There is also a table seating plan tool to use for the reception.IF YOU LOVE TRADITIONAL INVITATIONS  with text that looks like handwritten calligraphy  there is a site for that, and it could even address the envelopes. Annes Bridal Bargains sells invitations, along with save-the-date cards and thank you notes. Unusual and traditional styles are offered with any typeface, including the ones that look like calligraphy. Envelope addressing service is available at an extra charge. Prices for invitations, which includes response postcards, start at 99 cents each.GIFT REGISTRIES CAN BE SET up quickly. The website Zola  lets you register online and choose everything from luggage and kitchenware to hammocks and audio equipment. This site also provides a suite of free wedding tools, like a website creator and customizable checklists.IF YOU PREFER  CASH rather than pots and pans, there is ZankYou, another full-service wedding planning site. It offers a cash registry feature and also provides an option for contributing to various experiences on the honeymoon.WEDDING GOWNS AND BRIDESMAIDS DRESSES and accessories can be found on Azazie. The site sells dresses in sizes 0 to 30. Sample bridal gowns may be ordered to try on at home for $25 each; sample bridesmaids dresses are $10 each. Using tools on its app and website, you can create a virtual showroom so the whole bridal party can tune in and participate in choosing styles and colors before ordering samples or finished dresses. You can also upload a photo of your wedding theme or venue for dress color inspiration and suggestions.LETS NOT FORGET THE GROOMSMEN. Tuxedos, suits and all the accessories down to the socks can be rented through Menguin. (The site was started five years ago as an M.B.A. school project by its founder, Justin Delaney.) There are no virtual try-ons, but there is a detailed sizing tool available on the site once you log in. (Theres no app available yet.) If the suit does not fit properly after it arrives, a replacement will be sent free of charge. Shipping is free on all deliveries and returns. Everything is delivered in a box with a handle, just a bit larger than a brief case, making it easy to travel with.
