Even now, I can sit in the subway, and look up at the ads, and close my eyes, and theres Miss Subways. Mayor Edward I. Koch once recalled. She wasnt the most beautiful girl in the world but she was ours. She was our own Miss America.Most New Yorkers probably dont remember those eye-catching girl-next-door photographs. They were conceived by J. Walter Thompson to make the adjacent placards leased by Walter OMalleys advertising agency for soap, beer, cigarettes, soda, liquor and laxative companies more inviting.David Duchovny, the New York-born actor, was just a teenager when the last of the Miss Subways was crowned. He is best known for his television roles as Fox Mulder, the F.B.I. agent in The X-Files, and Hank Moody, the novelist in Californication. But in his third novel, Miss Subways (Farrar, Straus and Giroux), he demonstrates unequivocally that, to paraphrase the actor Chris Robinson who portrayed Dr. Rick Webber on General Hospital, he not only plays a novelist on TV, but is one.Literary snobs can rest assured that Mr. Duchovnys academic credentials are impeccable. He earned a bachelors from Princeton and a masters from Yale, both in English literature, and started a doctoral thesis on a subject that Hollywood agents must be salivating over, Magic and Technology in Contemporary Fiction and Poetry.Mr. Duchovny (whose mother was Scottish and a teacher; his father, the Brooklyn-born son of Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe who, as a writer, published his first novel at 73) peppers his book with classic literary quotations from Train of Thought, that (mass) transcendent and officially-sanctioned infusion of high culture (like todays Poetry in Motion) written on subway walls where the Miss Subways placards were once posted.Miss Subways was inspired by Yeatss century-old verse play, The Only Jealousy of Emer (itself drawn from Irish mythology). Even readers who arent fans of the metaphysical will be captivated by the authors charming narrative and vivid exposition as he recounts the fantasy romance between a struggling writer named Con Powers and Emer Gunnels, a parochial school teacher, who emerges as the novelist incarnate.Mr. Duchovny recounts a hilarious (and all too realistic) lesson that the teachers principal delivers on political correctness. He writes that no sane rider would pull the emergency brake on the subway barring an apocalyptic act (a damn velociraptor on the loose would be the bare minimum reason). And he wonders why Emer marveled at how many activities city dwellers seemed to prize were ones that made you forget you were in New York.Mr. Duchovny proves himself as a novelist when Con, Emers lover, asks, Do you see this story, this love story, spinning out into infinite variations? Or, are you saying that this one, the one that ends with the man making the ultimate romantic sacrifice for the woman in the eternal struggle between perfection of the life or the work  that thats the best of all possible worlds? Im a writer, she replies. I dont say anything. I write around it.Another New York novel, Flying Jenny (Akashic Books) by Theasa Tuohy, is a fictionalized account drawn from an obituary that appeared in The New York Times in 2010. As seen through the eyes of Laura Bailey, a tabloid newspaper reporter, Jenny Flynn, a stunt pilot (inspired by the exploits of Elinor Smith), begins the book by swooping under the East River bridges on an audacious flight west.
