Before reading the article: How much time do you spend playing video games?Do you play by yourself, or do you prefer multiplayer games, and why?Do you like to watch others compete, or are you happiest participating?In either case, where do you play, or watch, and what video games do you like best, and why?Now, read the article, All We Want to Do Is Watch Each Other Play Video Games, and answer the following questions: 1. What venues are being turned into neighborhood esports arenas?2. What one game is helping to power a transformation in society, when video games begin their takeover of the real world, according to the article? What evidence does the article cite to demonstrate that people are obsessed with this game?3. How many gamers does the article say are in America today? And what is the average age, according to Jud Hannigan, chief executive of Allied Esports?4. What are some of the articles examples of what an esports arena is like inside?5.  What is FaZe Clan and how do they make money, according to the article?6. How have Hollywood and the movie industry failed gamers, according to Lee Trink, an owner of FaZe Clan, and why does he think esports and gaming will eclipse movies in the future?7. Why do gamers today increasingly enjoy coming together instead of continuing to play games at home?Finally, tell us more about what you think: Do you agree with the author that Esports are, finally, just like any other sport? Why or why not?How would you explain the rising popularity of esports arenas to an adult who isnt familiar with the trend? Do you think the appeal of esports is understandable to people of any age who dont play video games? Why or why not?Would you like access to an esports arena near where you live, and if so, how much time would you spend there and why?See these related Times articles, Drake Conquers Another Streaming Service: Twitch, and Parenting the Fortnite Addict, and this related Learning Network Student Opinion question, Are You a Fortnite Addict?
