Heres what to expect in the week ahead:TRADEA final push begins in the talks over Nafta.Negotiators from the United States, Canada and Mexico will gather again in Washington on Monday to begin what government officials and industry leaders hope is the final leg of negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement.Although the countries continue to have significant differences of opinion about the deal, the Trump administration is pushing to have talks finalized soon to meet all the necessary deadlines to submit the deal for a vote in the current Republican-controlled Congress. Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative charged with negotiating the deal, said last week that he aimed to wrap up talks in the next week or two. Ana SwansonMEDIADisney reports earnings, but the big issue is Fox.Disney is expected to report strong results for its fiscal second quarter on Tuesday. ESPN is sound (for the moment). The theme park business is going up, up, up. And Walt Disney Studios, which released Black Panther in the quarter, is the envy of Hollywood. Analysts expect per-share profit to increase about 12 percent, and revenue to climb about 6 percent.But Disneys near-term performance is not what Wall Street cares about most right now  not with Comcast positioning itself to upend Disneys pending $52.4 billion acquisition of 21st Century Fox assets. If Comcast does make a renewed push for Fox, is Disney willing to go to war? What happens if Fox slips out of Disneys grip? Does Disney have a Plan B?Robert A. Iger, Disneys chief executive, will probably sidestep direct questions about the Fox acquisition on Disneys earnings conference call. But some tea leaves may emerge. Brooks BarnesTECHNOLOGYGoogle conference is expected heavily emphasize artificial intelligence.Google is holding its annual conference for developers near its Mountain View, Calif., headquarters this week. The event open on Tuesday with a keynote speech by Sundar Pichai, Googles chief executive, who is expected to talk about its latest efforts around artificial intelligence  a technology that the company believes will be instrumental to its future.The conference comes as Google faces a growing backlash against its vast data collection practices in the wake of Facebooks scandal involving Cambridge Analytica. Dai Wakabayashi Microsoft is expected to show off new initiatives at its Build conference.One of the other centers of gravity in the technology industry, Microsoft, will hold its own technical conference for developers, Build, in Seattle through Wednesday.There was a time no company was better at rallying developers to write software for its underlying technologies  the Windows operating system, in Microsofts case. But over the past decade, a lot of developer activity has shifted to mobile technologies from Apple and Google.Build is expected to showcase a variety of Microsoft initiatives that have helped the company maintain its influence in the tech industry, including its Azure cloud computing service and tools for adding artificial intelligence to software. Nick WingfieldECONOMYBank of England seen as unlikely to increase rates.The Bank of England, Britains central bank, faces a tricky balancing act when its rate-setting committee meets on Thursday. With inflation still sharply above the banks target, traders had been betting that policymakers would raise the benchmark interest rate.But a recent run of poor economic data  including disappointing growth figures and worse-than-anticipated results in the manufacturing sector  has prompted traders to revise those expectations. Mark J. Carney, the banks governor, has also played down the possibility of a rate increase. Prashant Rao Inflation probably rose in April.Fridays jobs report showed that the unemployment rate fell below 4 percent for the first time since 2000. Thats good news for workers, but it may add to fears that the tightening labor market will lead to faster inflation. Data that is to be released by the Labor Department on Thursday could add more fuel to the fire.Economists expect the report to show that consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in April and were up 2.5 percent from a year earlier, which would mark the fastest growth in more than a year. That acceleration would partly reflect higher oil prices, but inflation most likely picked up even setting aside volatile food and energy prices.The Federal Reserve has already factored somewhat faster inflation into its forecasts, but an unexpected spike could force the central bank to raise interest rates more quickly than planned. Ben Casselman
