LOS ANGELES  Gentrification may have become one of this countrys most nettlesome civic issues, but youd hardly know it judging from whats been on TV.In sitcoms and dramas set from Brooklyn to East L.A., the topic is played largely for laughs (think Abbis dope-fueled romp through her neighborhoods new Whole Foods on Broad City), and typically takes a supporting role in a larger narrative (HBOs Insecure, Netflixs Shes Gotta Have It). The gentrifier himself  and yes, hes most often a guy  is instantly recognizable, complete with a flannel shirt, fixie bike and gourmet coffee cup.In Vida, a Starz series debuting May 6 that revolves around two Mexican-American sisters, Emma (Mishel Prada) and Lyn (Melissa Barrera), the subject is no longer just comic fodder, but a central part of the six-episode, 30-minute drama. And the shows gentrifiers arent the usual clueless white hipsters. In Vida, theyre Mexican-American, and the core of the cast.In the first episode, a slick real estate developer in Boyle Heights tries to persuade Emma, a successful management consultant in Chicago, to sell a building owned by her recently deceased mother. In place of moms dive bar and low-rent apartments, the developer sees pricey condos. Who cares if her tenants, most of them undocumented, end up on the street? Not the developer, who, like Emma, is Mexican-American, and grew up in the neighborhood. Look at us, and look at them, he tells Emma. We took off the nopal from our foreheads.Nopal en la frente [literally, cactus on your forehead] is the most racist thing you can say, said Tanya Saracho, the shows creator and showrunner. Hes saying those people are indigenous, and were closer to white.Closer to white, but not. Theyre gente-fiers, Ms. Saracho said, using a term to describe upwardly mobile Latinos who are transforming their new communities. They go back to their neighborhoods, or maybe theyre not even from the neighborhoods, but they happen to be Latinx. Its still gentrification, but its even more egregious, maybe, because its us.On a recent morning, Ms. Saracho was at her office in Hollywood here, apologizing if she wasnt super up (she was, very much so), because she had taken melatonin the night before to help her sleep. Her office and nearby writing room are decorated with framed images of Frida Kahlo and Selena, and posters in favor of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program by the local artist/activist Julio Salgado. Theres a throw pillow on the couch that says Chingona, and lit candles and potted succulents everywhere. I have an all Latinx writers room, she said, using a gender-neutral word for Latino and Latina. I have one male writer, and the rest are female identified.Over coffee and mini-conchas brought from a nearby Mexican bakery, Ms. Saracho described her experiences growing up in nine different port towns by the time she was nine (my dad worked for Mexican customs), her familys move to Texas when she was 12 (I thought I spoke English, but then found out I didnt), her playwriting career in Chicago (where she founded the theater group Teatro Luna), and her eventual relocation to Los Angeles in 2012 to work on series like Looking and How to Get Away with Murder.Vida grew out of an assignment in early 2016, when she was tasked by Starz to develop a series about chipsters  a term for Chicano hipsters which can either be endearing or biting, depending on whos saying it  and the topic of gentefication (see previous note on chipsters).There was a lot to consider, Ms. Saracho said. Do Mexican Americans who return to their old neighborhoods still have a right to dictate what goes on there? Does wanting less crime and better roads automatically make you a chipster? Can one be simultaneously Latinx and vegan?Its complicated, she said. And I have to see all the sides.The topic of gentrification has popped up on several recent shows, including series set in Inglewood (HBOs Insecure), North Oakland (the web series The North Pole), Boyle Heights (the web series Gente-fied, which is being adapted into a series for Netflix) and Brooklyn (the Tracy Morgan comedy on TBS, The Last O.G., and the web series aka Wyatt Cenac and Brooklynification).As in Vida, many of the gentrifiers in this new wave of shows are people of color, a change from the recent TV past in shows like Portlandia and Girls. In Gente-fied, the chef bringing artisanal tacos to Boyle Heights is a Latino local and one of the ensemble comedys central figures. In The North Pole, the guy in plaid who just took a job with GreenGos, an eco-friendly start-up, is African-American, and one of the shows trio of stars.And even when the gentrifiers are white, show creators have managed to tweak the model. When Gloria Calderon Kellett and Mike Royce first envisioned the character of Schneider on their reboot of One Day at a Time, they saw a quinoa-eating, mansplaining guy in flannel and thermals. Our first conception of him was the handsome ugly American, Mr. Royce said. As the show progressed, however, he has become a far more sympathetic and fleshed-out character.The hipster in TV narratives tend to be white, even though hipsters obviously come in all ethnicities, said Daniel Makagon, a communication studies professor at DePaul who has written extensively about gentrification and the media. I dont think weve seen many shows where the gentrifiers are minorities, so itll be interesting to see if that starts to become more of a narrative.One major issue in Vida is the impact that gentrification  or, in this case, gentefication  has on the locals. Chelsea Rendon plays Marisol, a fearless anti-gentrification vlogger and community activist who calls out injustice, hypocrisy or just plain bouginess wherever she sees it. For the role, Ms. Rendon drew from her own experiences growing up in East L.A.I was like, how would I react if El Mercadito was gone and they put up a Walmart?, she said. Or if Tamales Lilianas wasnt there anymore, and they put up a Starbucks. If those places were gone, it would be heartbreaking.As the overassimilated, non-Spanish-speaking Lyn, Ms. Barrera plays one of Marisols chief foils, even though the actress is just about as far from the character she plays as one can get. Ms. Barrera speaks  and sings  fluent Spanish, having acted in films, plays and telenovelas in her native Mexico. And she wasnt nearly as familiar with Lyns hometown Boyle Heights, which is why she went on several Eastside excursions once she got cast. I could feel the warmth of the people, how welcoming they were, she said. It felt like I was walking around Mexico City.Indeed, in many ways, Boyle Heights has become a character in the series, and Ms. Saracho has spoken with residents and community groups in the effort to get things right. Shes also tackled several issues besides gentefication that havent historically gotten a lot of play on series TV, including homophobia in the Mexican-American community and how Latinos cant tell Asians apart (the signage for moms dive bar, La Chinita, has a geisha on it).Even so, Ms. Saracho said, the series isnt a polemic. There are sisterly squabbles and hilarious trash talk, much of it in Spanish, as well as moments of extreme tenderness and jerks being jerks. The show is about gentefication, but it shouldnt hit you over the head, she said. In the end, its about the girls.
