LEFT BANK Art, Passion, and the Rebirth of Paris, 1940-50 By Agns Poirier Illustrated. 331 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $30.Oh to visit Paris in 1949 with Nelson Algren! In town on a trip to see his lover, Simone de Beauvoir, Algren attended dinners with Juliette Grco and Miles Davis, spent nights drinking whiskey and grapefruit gin with Richard Wright at the Montana Bar, dropped in on cocktail parties at Gallimard and attended an evening cabaret performance by Yves Montand. But since we cant cue up the good old days on YouTube, as the contemporary British writer Matthew de Abaitua has put it, well have to turn to books like Agns Poiriers Left Bank to stoke our historical FOMO.A journalist who was born in Paris and educated in London, Poirier knows that we expect many things when we consider the mythic figures who populated Paris in the 1940s. They appeared outsize in their own time too. The young of that era looked to Sartre, Beauvoir, Merleau-Ponty, Camus and their friends to change the world, but they inevitably disappointed. How could they not?Carefully combing through an impressive amount of material, Poirier assembles the history of a decade in Paris as she tries to explain how these figures came to loom so large. And what a difference a decade makes  the period just before midcentury saw two republics and an occupation, the rise of communism and the beginning of both the Cold War and the war in Indochina. Left Bank moves scene to scene, cafe to cafe, tracing the affiliations and intrigues of a group of writers, philosophers, artists and curators whose lives were, as Poirier puts it, shaped by the ordeals of World War II and whose fates coincided in the service of art and revolution.Spared destruction by a sentimental Nazi who couldnt bear to blow the place up, as Hitler had instructed, Paris recuperated from the war with miraculous speed. In Poiriers account, the city seems more like a small town where everyone knew everyone and together faced down the enemy, then took on the task of building a new world in the ashes of the old. This, of course, wasnt the case, and Poiriers sometimes narrow focus presents a rather elite version of the period. Consider, for example, the 1947 debut of Christian Diors New Look, using yards and yards of fabric to create full calf-length skirts  utterly shocking after the necessary parsimony of wartime. The British historian Andrew Hussey has described a Dior photo shoot in the working-class streets of Montmartre when the local women flew at the models, ripping the clothes to shreds in anger and disgust. In contrast, Poirier loftily extols the way Dior reintroduced glamour and luxury, the way he invented a new sexy silhouette, reminding us that Hollywood stars demanded to be dressed by him. This is typical of the way the breathless mythology of the era, to which none of us are immune, can obscure the way we see it. Poirier buys into the glamour and luxury at moments like these, but who can really blame her?ImagePoiriers account of the decade explores a crucial moment at which prewar and postwar culture came together. She drops in on Marlon Brando watching Eartha Kitt sing at Cocteaus old haunt, Le Boeuf sur le Toit (Chri, je vous aime beaucoup, je ne sais pas what to do), and accompanies Beauvoir on a visit to an aging Alberto Giacometti, who, 20 years past his peak, is finally having a breakthrough. And shes particularly attentive to Richard Wrights association with Sartre and Beauvoirs journal, Les Temps Modernes, emphasizing the meaningful contributions Wright made to French intellectual life. Far from romanticizing the American expat community, Poirier gives us some unflattering portraits of visiting writers. Arriving in 1948, James Baldwin, although welcomed by Wright, promptly tore him apart in his essay Everybodys Protest Novel. Poirier suggests that Norman Mailers prickliness was learned from the French. And in her portrait Saul Bellow, forever dissatisfied, coming and going between his wife and family on the Right Bank and his writers studio and bachelor lifestyle on the Left, is just really annoying.As group biographies go, Left Bank lacks the weightiness of Sarah Bakewells At the Existentialist Caf. But Poirier excels on a different level, going just beyond the shallows without venturing into the depths. And its here that we can best observe the wonderful material details of history that have accrued beneath the waters. She notes, for instance, that the Mona Lisa was driven away from Paris before the war in an ambulance specially fitted with elastic rubber-sprung suspension. And on Aug. 24, 1944, when the Radiodiffusion de la Nation Franaise appealed to the priests of Paris to ring their church bells, announcing the beginning of the Liberation, the 258-year-old lowest-pitch bourdon of Notre Dame Cathedral, the 13-ton bell known as Emmanuel, Notre Dames largest, rang out in F sharp so loudly that it would be heard at least five miles away.In the end, its Paris and the pursuit of freedom that unites the people in Poiriers book. From their homes on the Right and Left Banks, they will have heard the bell that evening and felt the same rush of joy and hope. We experience it too, thanks to a detail like that. As Poirier hops across arrondissements, she manages to create the feeling were peeking into the windows of her subjects, looking at buildings that still stand, at inhabitants long gone.
