Los Angeles may be home to the glamour of Hollywood and Beverly Hills, but that doesnt mean an upscale visit to the city is out of reach for travelers who dont have big budgets. Dan Ilves, a Los Angeles native and senior vice president for leisure at TravelStore, said that a high-end trip here can be had even without deep pockets. Heres how. Avoid a Summer Visit If youre looking to save on lodging, whether its in mid-tier or luxury hotels, plan your trip to L.A. during the fall, spring or winter (this doesnt apply to times when big events, like the Oscars, are happening  best to check your dates in advance). Prices for hotel rooms are higher in the summer because thats when the most tourists come, Mr. Ilves said. If the summer is the only time you can visit, try to plan your trip during the week instead of on the weekend, when hotel rates are often lower. Rely on Ridesharing to Get Around Los Angeles is infamous for its never-ending traffic, and driving around the city is usually a painful process. And if youre staying at a hotel, daily parking fees can add up quickly. Avoid aggravation and save money by relying on Uber, Lyft or other ridesharing services as your primary means of transportation. They are very efficient to use and affordable, Mr. Ilves said. Plus, being chauffeured around town is a true luxury. Get Into the Culture Many visitors to Los Angeles are unaware that the city has a vibrant culture scene thats inexpensive to explore. For example, the many small theater houses that run high-quality shows, which offer discounted tickets through ticketing sites like Plays411.com  in some cases up to half-off. Museums are a must, too. Mr. Ilves top picks include the Wende Museum, in Culver City, which has exhibits dedicated to the Cold War and offers free admission. The J. Paul Getty Museum, home to a fantastic art collection, also has free admission (although parking starts at $10, so maybe take a bus or that rideshare we mentioned above). Music fans should hit the Grammy Museum, devoted to the history and musicians connected with the eponymous awards. Admission is $12.95. Finally, just outside of the city, Carson has the International Printing Museum where visitors can see an impressive collection of antique printing presses; admission is $10.  The Tastiest Food in Town Is Inexpensive The citys most delicious restaurants are some of the most affordable, Mr. Ilves said. Howlin Rays, for example, serves Nashville style fried chicken and is known for its hourlong lines. Grand Central Market, in the Downtown area, is home to an array of popular food vendors including La Tostaderia, serving Mexican ceviche, and Sticky Rice, serving an array of Thai dishes. Other options: the Montebello area, situated just outside of the city, has excellent Chinese food including dim sum. Sawtelle Boulevard, in West L.A., is lined with Japanese restaurants including ones serving ramen and sushi, and Mid-Wilshire is full of great Korean joints. See the (Free) SightsMany of L.A.s best and most memorable attractions are free. These include Griffith Observatory, where visitors can get fantastic views of the city and the famous Hollywood sign, Santa Monica Pier, Venice Beach, the Hollywood Walk of Fame, Rodeo Drive and Runyon Canyon Park.  Mr. Ilves recommended searching the web for local blogs and newspapers, checking TripAdvisor or asking your hotels concierge to learn about additional free sights. 
