Sheldon visits his big brother on The Big Bang Theory. And Jim Gordon tries to quell chaos in Gotham.Whats StreamingSALOM on BroadwayHD. If Al Pacino looks comfortable as King Herod, its because hes quite familiar with the role: He has played the character several times, including on Broadway in 1992. He both directs and stars in this production, which was filmed in 2006. A pre-stardom Jessica Chastain plays the title character and is more than up to the challenge of facing off against Mr. Pacino, demanding the head of John the Baptist from the lustful Herod in exchange for a dance. THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM (2007) on Netflix. According to many critics, the best Jason Bourne movie is this third installment starring Matt Damon; it arrived on Netflix this week. The film follows Bourne as he races down the London Underground, up Tangier rooftops and through New York City streets in search of information about his past. Of course, there are assassins hunting him with every step. Paul Greengrass directed the high-wire action. Theres no one in Hollywood right now who does action better, who keeps the pace going so relentlessly, without mercy or letup, scene after hard-rocking scene, Manohla Dargis wrote in her  review in The New York Times.MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS (1974) on Amazon Prime. Last years adaptation of this Agatha Christie novel received mixed reviews  in part for not measuring up to Sidney Lumets version from 40 years earlier. His film received six Oscar nominations, with Ingrid Bergman winning best supporting actress for her turn as the Swedish missionary Greta Ohlsson. The suspenseful murder mystery races through the European countryside in full period splendor of the 1930s, and also features Sean Connery, Lauren Bacall, Vanessa Redgrave and Jacqueline Bisset.Whats on TVTHE BIG BANG THEORY 8 p.m. on CBS. Like Maris from Frasier or the Little Red-Haired Girl in Peanuts, Sheldons older brother George has been the topic of many a conversation on The Big Bang Theory but has never been seen. That will change in this episode, in which Sheldons mother tells him that she wont attend his wedding to Amy unless he invites his brother (played by Jerry OConnell). So Sheldon schleps down to Texas in hopes of burying the hatchet. Theres a good chance that a younger George will appear in YOUNG SHELDON, which follows at 8:30.GOTHAM 8 p.m. on Fox. Jim Gordon (Ben McKenzie) tries to chase down the culprit responsible for the chaos at the Gotham City Police Department. A friend of Bruce Waynes (David Mazouz) becomes paranoid and destructive.MARCIA CLARK INVESTIGATES THE FIRST 48 9 p.m. on A&E. Ms. Clark looks into the death of Jam Master Jay, the D.J. of Run-D.M.C. who was shot and killed in 2002 in a recording studio in Jamaica, Queens. The death remains unsolved.
