WEDNESDAY PUZZLE  One of the nice things about learning to construct crossword puzzles is that its a lot like riding a bike; a puzzle maker could go for long periods of time without creating a puzzle and, as soon as they hop back on, they quickly rediscover that they will never, ever get off that bike without having smeared chain grease all over their pants.Im sorry, I drifted. Let me try that again.Bryant White has been a Times crossword constructor for many years, and as he says in his notes below, this is his first crossword published in The New York Times since the 1990s. Happily, hes hopped back on that bicycle of construction to offer us a theme that evoked my favorite movie in the whole world. More about that after the clues.Tricky Clues1A: Not sure of your geography around the Indian Ocean? Solve using the much kinder Down clues to learn that the island of JAVA is Christmas Islands closest neighbor.16A: TIL about LENA the Hyena, a character from the Lil Abner comic (Hi, kids!) that was introduced in 1946. She was billed by the comics creator, Al Capp, as the worlds ugliest woman, whose face was never actually seen, for fear it would drive readers insane. Mr. Capp was a complicated person who didnt like women very much. The unseen character provoked a lot of curiosity among readers, so he ran a drawing contest asking people what they thought LENA looked like, which elicited responses from both professional and amateur cartoonists. The winner was a semiprofessional named Basil Wolverton.17A: A supervocalic word is one in which all of the vowels (not necessarily Y) are used at least once, so the Key parts of a so-called supervocalic word are A E I O U.48A: Nippers co. refers to RCA, whose RCA Victor trademark was a terrier named Nipper listening with its head cocked to a Victrola.68A: Im all for pillow fights, but I would never slug someone if they SNOREd. A gentle nudge, maybe.69A: To those who would prefer not to see the word NAZI in their puzzles: I feel you. But note the clue here (Extra in The Producers). Mel Brooks, who wrote and directed The Producers has long said that the only way to  rob people like the NAZIs of their powers is to make fun of them (warning: This Die Spiegel interview behind this link contains strong and possibly offensive language.)7D: Quartets after some infighting? was a fun clue and answer (TRIOS), although it assumed that only one person leaves the quartet.24D: Where you might adjust the volume? isnt hinting at sound levels, but a book volume, so the answer is BOOKCASE.Todays ThemeI really enjoyed Mr. Whites theme, and it was packed with theme material. Thats good, because I guessed the message inside the circled squares, HIDDEN STAIRCASE, fairly quickly and hoped that I wasnt done with the theme that fast. That HIDDEN STAIRCASE leads from the TROPHY ROOM (19A) to the WINE CELLAR (59A), which is a perfectly reasonable place to toddle off to for a drink after youve shown off your gold and silver cups.But how do we get there, you ask? One doesnt simply descend a HIDDEN STAIRCASE. One has to find it first.Fortunately, Mr. White has embedded some secret passages for us in the vein of old movies: You might secretly push a FALSE PANEL (9D) in a BOOKCASE, or you might secretly push a WALL SCONCE (28D) in that TROPHY ROOM.Either way, watch your timing or you could end up like this:All in all, a nice midweek outing, with a bit more gluey fill than I like (ENSE, ADZE, DDE, TNUT, ONER, lots of abbreviations).Constructor NotesThis particular puzzle is the first one Ive had published in The New York Times in 20 years. From about the mid-1980s through the 90s, I was a semiregular contributor, but stopped to pursue other hobbies which became much more time-consuming.In recent years, before constructing puzzles again, I wrote two futuristic, hard-boiled crime novel e-books (inspired by stories written by Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett) and created two more e-books of cartoons (inspired by my fondness for Halloween and the artistic works of Charles Addams in The Addams Family). Creativity seems to be part of my DNA.Puzzle-wise, I receive a lot more rejections now than I did two and three decades ago, but thats life  it forces me to think outside the box more and more when it comes to devising puzzle themes.The Tipping PointAlmost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
