The scene that unfolded in Washington Heights nearly three years ago was terrifying. A man was wielding a knife in the dead of night, yelling about deities and demons as he repeatedly stabbed a woman.Onlookers recoiled and some called for help. By the time the attack ended, the woman, EDena Hines, lay dying on 162nd Street. When police officers arrived, the man with the knife looked to them like he was praying.In State Supreme Court in Manhattan on Wednesday, prosecutors and defense lawyers made final arguments in the trial of Lamar Davenport, who was charged with killing Ms. Hines, his onetime girlfriend who lived on the block where the fatal stabbing took place. Ms. Hines, 33, was related by marriage to Morgan Freeman and had done some acting herself.But she was also in a tempestuous relationship with Mr. Davenport that included the use of PCP, a drug they both ingested the night of the killing. The prosecution maintained on Wednesday that although the drug had clearly affected Mr. Davenport, he retained enough awareness to be found guilty of murder.A defense lawyer, however, told Judge Ellen N. Biben, who is conducting a bench trial, that the powerful hallucinogen had caused a devolution from lucidity to psychosis, and that Mr. Davenport had no intent to kill Ms. Hines.His mind had detached from reality, the lawyer, Annie Costanzo, told Judge Biben. His thoughts were completely uncoupled from the real world.At one time Ms. Hiness grandmother was married to Mr. Freeman, the Academy Award-winning actor. Ms. Hines had a part in one of his movies, 5 Flights Up, playing a receptionist. Mr. Davenport, 33, had a more troubled history. He had an arrest record, the defense acknowledged. He once tried to fight a car in Harrisburg, Pa., a prosecutor, Christopher C. Prevost, told the judge.On Aug. 16, 2015, the two joined friends downtown. When they got back to the apartment on West 162nd Street, the couple ingested PCP. Ms. Hines became euphoric and grandiose, Mr. Prevost said. Mr. Davenport experienced euphoria too, Mr. Prevost said, but something made him snap. At some point just before 3 a.m., prosecutors and defense lawyers said, Mr. Davenport left the building, followed by Ms. Hines.Mr. Prevost described to the judge a methodical attack, saying that Mr. Davenport kicked Ms. Hiness legs out from under her, sending her to the ground, then pounced on top of her, holding her down as she twisted. Mr. Davenport then grabbed a hunting knife with a four-and-a-half-inch blade that he had been wearing for a few weeks in a sheath on his belt, Mr. Prevost said, and he stabbed Ms. Hines 14 times in the back, turned her over and stabbed her 11 more times, piercing vital organs. With his final blow, Mr. Prevost said, Mr. Davenport plunged the knife into Ms. Hiness heart and left it there.Witnesses said that as he stabbed Ms. Hines, Mr. Davenport shouted release the demons and I love you, I always loved you, God would want this. Some also said that after the stabbing he lifted his hands to the sky. Police officers said they found him with his hands clasped in front of him, as if in prayer, Mr. Prevost said.Ms. Costanzo said that because of the PCP, Mr. Davenport had suffered a psychotic break. He believed that a demon was inhabiting the body of Ms. Hines and was trying to release it, she said.His brain was just all scrambled up, Ms. Costanzo told the judge, adding that because her client had been suffering from extreme emotional disturbance at the time of the stabbing, he should not be convicted of second-degree murder, the charge he had been indicted on. However, she said, because Mr. Davenport was responsible for the death of Ms. Hines, he should be convicted of second-degree manslaughter.Mr. Prevost countered that Mr. Davenports actions had been deliberate and coordinated. Although he may have suffered from God-themed delusions, the prosecutor added, even someone who is delusional can act with intent. The evidence, he said, indicated that Mr. Davenport had meant to harm Ms. Hines.It is not a coincidence that the defendant attacked her in such a lethal matter, he said. His objective and end purpose was to cause her death.At one point during Mr. Prevosts dry recitation of grisly details, Ms. Hiness mother rose from the gallery, weeping, and rushed outside.Throughout the arguments, Mr. Davenport sat silently. After the proceeding, as he was led from the courtroom in handcuffs, he appeared to glance briefly toward the gallery where Ms. Hiness family and friends sat, then once again gazed straight ahead.
