Being Serena looks at the pregnancy and marriage of the tennis champion Serena Williams. And Elizabeth gets a new assignment on The Americans.Whats on TVBEING SERENA 10 p.m. on HBO. Serena Williams has gamely displayed different parts of her personality to the camera over the years, from frustration (the documentary Venus and Serena) to ferocity (in Beyoncs Lemonade) to humor (in the mockumentary 7 Days in Hell). Ms. Williams allows even more access to her life in this new documentary series, which ventures into her delivery room and behind the scenes of her wedding with Alexis Ohanian. The cameras capture a dramatic emergency surgery, her peaceful home life and a return to tennis that led to a tense match against her older sister Venus.SOUL PLANE (2004) 7:55 p.m. on BET. Long before he was selling out stadiums and anchoring blockbuster franchises, Kevin Hart played Nashawn Wade, an entrepreneur who starts an urban airline that doubles as a raucous coast-to-coast party. In his review for The New York Times, Stephen Holden called it so relentlessly raunchy that it makes a spoof like Airplane seem as demure as a vintage drawing-room comedy. The loaded cast includes Method Man, Sofia Vergara, Terry Crews, Tom Arnold, Snoop Dogg (as a pot-smoking pilot scared of heights)  and for some reason, the basketball player Karl Malone playing himself.THE AMERICANS 10 p.m. on FX. A sudden assignment pulls Elizabeth (Keri Russell) away from her family at a crucial moment. A major development at the F.B.I. leads the agent Aderholt (Brandon J. Dirden) to approach the Jennings neighbor Stan (Noah Emmerich) about an urgent investigation.COLONY 10 p.m. on USA. As alumni of Lost and The Walking Dead, respectively, Josh Holloway and Sarah Wayne Callies are used to fighting against invaders and making excruciating decisions. They put both of those skills to use in Colony, which depicts a version of Los Angeles that has been occupied after Earth gets taken over by a mysterious extraterrestrial group. Season 3 picks up six months after Will (Holloway) and Katie Bowman (Callies) escape from the city; they seek shelter and a place to rebuild their family, and attempt to learn more about their occupiers.Whats StreamingTHE HANDMAIDS TALE on Hulu. This show was pushed to the center of a cultural firestorm this week when the comedian Michelle Wolf compared Sarah Huckabee Sanders to the character Aunt Lydia at the White House Correspondents Association dinner. As pundits continue to parse out whether the joke was offensive or fair game, the fictional Aunt Lydia (Ann Dowd) continues to terrorize the handmaidens in Season 2, including staging a mock execution. Aunt Lydia is a fascinating amalgam of contradictions  glimpses of sympathy and true belief amid blatant hypocrisy, sadism and condescension, Genevieve Valentine wrote in her Times recap.
