With every new episode of Saturday Night Live, you can find us here writing about the best sketches. Looking for more stories about S.N.L.? Weve got you covered.A murderers row of Saturday Night Live cast members and guest performers turned out for the shows cold opening this weekend, playing President Trump and the many people in his orbit engulfed by the controversy surrounding a payment made to Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels. The star-studded sketch ended with a surprise payoff of its own: an appearance by the real-life Clifford, who traded a few barbs with Alec Baldwins incarnation of Trump.The episode (hosted by Donald Glover, who also served as musical guest under his stage name Childish Gambino) began with Ben Stiller, reprising his role as Michael D. Cohen, the personal lawyer to Trump, as he placed a pay phone call to the president. Baldwin received the call in the Oval Office.Responding to Stillers concern that his explanation for the payment to Clifford keeps changing, Baldwin said it was time to call upon the services of Rudolph W. Giuliani (portrayed by the ever-versatile Kate McKinnon) because, he said, Hes got the sharpest legal mind since My Cousin Vinny.But first, Stiller placed an accidental call to Dr. Harold N. Bornstein, Trumps personal physician, as played by Martin Short. Short explained he had plenty of free time, saying, I have zero commitments, personally or professionally. But if you ever want to do drugs, I can get you all the drugs.Meanwhile, Baldwin was engaged with another call from Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, played by Aidy Bryant.Mr. President, I have lost all credibility, she told him. Did you lie to me about the Stormy Daniels affair?Baldwin said, Yeah, that sounds like something I would do.Bryant answered cheerfully, O.K., good, just as long as were on the same page.Stiller took further calls from Melania Trump (Cecily Strong); Omarosa Manigault Newman (Leslie Jones); Vice President Pence (Beck Bennett); as well as Ivanka Trump (Scarlett Johansson) and a squeaky-voiced Jared Kushner (Jimmy Fallon).Finally, Baldwin instructed Stiller to call Stormy Daniels and fix this once and for all.Here, Clifford made her unexpected cameo, warning Baldwin, I know you dont believe in climate change, but a storms a-coming, baby.[ Want to watch a great movie on Netflix but feeling a bit overwhelmed? Here are the 100 best movies on the streaming service. ]Parody of the WeekThe John Krasinski-Emily Blunt horror movie A Quiet Place, about a family terrorized by monsters that are highly sensitive to sound, was sent up as A Kanye Place. In the S.N.L. sketch, a group of friends try to survive a similar ordeal, but one by one, they cannot suppress their exclamations of surprise and dismay when they see social media updates about Kanye West.Aidy Bryants character warns the group, Kanye is a distraction. We should only talk about whats important. A short while later, Donald Glover whispers, Kanye was just on TMZ and he said slavery was a choice! Beck Bennett cries out No! as a monster whisks him away to his certain death.Childish Gambino Performance of the WeekGlover, in his musical identity as Childish Gambino, was introduced by the actor Daniel Kaluuya (Get Out, Black Panther) at the start of his second number, a new song called This Is America. A video for this song, directed by Atlanta veteran Hiro Murai, was also released during the night.Weekend Update Jokes of the Week: Rudy Giuliani EditionThe hosts of Weekend Update, Michael Che and Colin Jost, opened the segment with a few jabs at Giuliani and his not-so-smooth start as a member of Trumps legal team.Jost: Well, the clock might be running out on Trumps presidency, so you know what that means: Theyre finally putting in Rudy. But instead of making a great play, this Rudy immediately tackled his own quarterback. Giuliani appeared on Fox News and straight up admitted that Trump knew about the Stormy Daniels payment, which was maybe the best confession Ive seen on TV that didnt end with, Created by Dick Wolf.Che: Rudy Giuliani is claiming that President Trump only learned a week ago that he was reimbursing Michael Cohens payment to Stormy Daniels in $35,000 installments. I have a couple questions. Like, what kind of billionaire pays for stuff in installments? Youre the President of the United States, why are you paying for sex like its a Nordictrack?Gratuitous Explanations of Musical References of the WeekHeres an easy quiz to determine which S.N.L. viewing demographic you fall into: Did you already know that the sketch about the Lamborghini-obsessed hip-hop trio that lands in a therapists office was a spoof of Migos, the Georgia-based group that performed on the show earlier this season?Or did you already know that the sketch in which Glover played a sullen, trenchcoat-clad R&B singer named Raz P. Berry was paying homage to Oran Juice Jones and his 1986 hit The Rain?Biting the Hand that Feeds You of the WeekGlover, who plays Lando Calrissian in the coming film Solo: A Star Wars Story, appeared in that role for a sketch that mocked the Star Wars franchise for its lack of black characters.Standing in a ballroom at what he described as the first-ever galactic summit for all black humans, Glover asked, Where the hell are all the black people in space? He looked out into the room and saw only three other people. Ill say it, Glover lamented. Turnout was a little low.
