When Oceans 8 began filming in October 2016  with eight actresses reviving the martini and testosterone-zested heist franchise that last winked at audiences in 2007  Hillary Clinton was ahead in the polls, Harvey Weinstein was synonymous with Hollywood power, and few in the industry, let alone the public, had ever heard of the term inclusion rider.The movie will be released on June 8 in a dramatically different world. Tectonic shifts set off by the #MeToo and Times Up movements have thrust long overlooked perils for working women into sharp relief. And the films implicit argument  that the particular experiences of women have for too long been an afterthought  seems suddenly prescient.On set, the stars deliberately cultivated an idealized simulacrum of the broader industry  female-led, open, nonhierarchical, mutually supportive. We were all in the trailers sitting right next to each other  sharing, downloading, collaborating, Sandra Bullock, who led a cast that included Cate Blanchett, Rihanna, Mindy Kaling and Anne Hathaway, said in a recent interview. Everyone became a surrogate parent/best friend/therapist.Ms. Bullock, who was in Los Angeles, was joined by Ms. Kaling from New York in a three-way phone conversation and subsequent emails. Topics included double standards for men and women in Hollywood, Ms. Kalings secret on-set pregnancy, and the endurance of their all-star sisterhood, complete with lively group texting.Its very active, Ms. Kaling said of the group chat. Some days youll leave your phone and you come back and theres 23 missed texts  mostly the rest of us teasing Sarah Paulson. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.Did you know each other before shooting? SANDRA BULLOCK Id never met Mindy. I knew who she was. I first discovered her on The Office.MINDY KALING Like every other person in the world, I kind of believed that I was friends with Sandra Bullock. Ive always wanted to write something for her. So to get to act with her was a very, very close second.Im picturing a buddy comedy with the two of you co-headlining.BULLOCK [laughs] I feel like we have similar voices. Similar comedic and dramatic timing. With Mindy, theres also such a deep-rooted sincerity. Her voice is just so truthful and unabashedly real.KALING Thank you. Thats such an amazing thing to say.BULLOCK Its true. Anyone who is honest about their shortcomings, it just makes me admire them more, and it makes me feel O.K. about being the human being that I am.KALING Which is why Im taking this time to announce the movie that were doing together called Inspirational Best Friends. [Laughter]Did you get to share many personal moments? Outside of your responsibilities on set?KALING I remember we went to dinner once when I was two weeks pregnant and I couldnt tell anybody.BULLOCK You said you were on heavy antibiotics. [Laughs]KALING Im so superstitious!BULLOCK Its not superstitious! You just dont mention it until youre the first trimester in. Paulson and I kept trying to get you to order a cocktail, and youre like, Im on strict antibiotics. And were like What kind of antibiotic is that? [Laughs]KALING Then I said they were antipsychotics. [Laughter] I had to spin a web of lies. I just wish I had been able to actually drink with them.BULLOCK I could be wrong, but on the first Oceans [starring George Clooney, Brad Pitt and Matt Damon] hardly anyone was married, there was a bar on set, it was in Vegas, they planned outings. On our film, everyone was juggling one to two kids, dual careers  eight peoples full schedules. We didnt even get to go to dinner until almost the entire thing was over. Those moments when we were able to get to know each other as people happened late night on the set, sharing information.I realized there were so many questions I had and didnt know who to ask in the journey of my career. And here I sat in a room with seven other women who might have those answers. We all threw everything into the pot, and by the time we left, I felt like we had gone through college together.What did you want to know?BULLOCK About the business. You just go, How did you navigate it when you were making your deals? What do you know to ask for? What do you not ask for? Do you have people who help you? How much of it is you? How much of it is your agents and managers? I call it actress solitary confinement. Ive been in this business for a while, but I still felt like such a freshman.Do you think that kind of secrecy is a problem for the industry as a whole? Or in what ways is it more difficult for women?KALING I feel like there is pressure for an actress to always be polished and beautiful. So you cannot share anything about what it took to get there because its supposed to be effortless. I didnt know any of these actresses going into this movie other than what Id read about them in magazines, so it was nice, when it was the seventh hour of a 12-hour scene, to be able to look over to someone and go, What doctor do I go to? What was your business experience with this person? What are the logistics of having kids when youre a single mom?Had you ever experienced anything like that on earlier projects? Youve both been in films with large numbers of women in the cast before.KALING I actually dont remember what its like to act with a man. Between this movie and A Wrinkle in Time, I dont think Ive acted with a man in two years. What about you, Sandy?BULLOCK For me, this time [the difference was] Id experienced enough in life that a lot of the artifice and baggage that Id had had sort of been dropped or taken from me or exposed. Everything I do now, its like, Is this worth it for the family?This movie was supposed to be shot in the summer so I didnt have to take my kids out of school. Thats my prerequisite now. Mindy, youre gonna learn that: Everything revolves around whats best for the kids. But something came up with Cates schedule where we had to shift [filming] into the school year, and I was like, I cant do this. But you pick up the family, you find a great school, and you go Oh, adventure!Being in this group of women, its not about having to prove something. I wanted to make connections, maybe get a couple of good lines in the process. You dont know that youre going to get many more chances, so each opportunity you just want to be there 100 percent.I read that the eight of you shared a trailer on set. Why?BULLOCK [Laughs] We actually had two trailers and everyone was packed in like sardines with their chairs next to each other. For me, it was really important that you have time to connect before you hit the ground running. [The trailers were] where we were all one team. If a scene doesnt feel right, how do we fix it? To me it felt like a big think tank. Mindy, I dont know what it felt like for you.KALING For me, the chattiest I am and the best that I am is like 15 minutes after I first wake up, so just to see everyone the way they are first thing in the morning was such a nice bonding experience.The movie finds an interesting way in to some of the gender politics you were mentioning. Many of the characters have been underestimated in their careers, and they use that to their advantage when they turn to crime. Are there still times when either of you feels underestimated professionally?KALING The feeling of being underestimated has completely fueled my career. At this point I find it motivating.BULLOCK I underestimate myself constantly, constantly  whether its in my own mind or whether it actually exists. I dont take the business side personally, but I take my work personally because thats a year of your life. And when I see inequality, when I see condescension, when I see people who are prominently displayed on a card for a job they are not fit for, I have a visceral reaction now that Ive never had before. Im just a lot more vocal.It feels like were starting to see things shift, if only incrementally, toward a world where movies like Oceans 8 arent just considered womens movies but are seen as potential blockbusters for all audiences. Are you feeling that shift in your own careers? Are you getting offered better roles?KALING Ive always created my own roles, so I havent had to face the excruciating lameness of most female roles in film and TV. Getting offered this [movie] was unusual for me. So yes, I do think there is a shift.BULLOCK I dont know. I dont wish for things I dont have. So maybe there are things that are not coming to me, but Im not wishing for them.Youre not thinking about what the next few movies might be?BULLOCK Nope. Not at all. Because I have my family  thats what I think about 24/7. If an opportunity comes along thats good for the family, Ill consider it. And thats probably why Ill be working less and less. I just wrapped another movie, Bird Box, that Im really excited about. But now Im back in car-pool mode. Thats where my attention is: make the lunches, get them to school. Thats all I got.
