The pianists Daniil Trifonov, 27, and Leif Ove Andsnes, 48, are at very different places in their careers. But as both have had major presences in New York this season, Ive been struck by how similarly these exceptional pianists approached the coveted platforms they were handed.Mr. Trifonov, who had a Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall, has always been able to toss off Liszt and Chopin tudes or any blockbuster concerto. But from the start he showed a poetic sensibility and probing musical curiosity.Mr. Andsnes, who was the New York Philharmonics artist in residence this season, is also the opposite of a flashy virtuoso. He has played the standard repertory splendidly, but also has explored works by Janacek, Scandinavian composers and, most recently, Sibelius. (Yes, Sibelius the visionary symphonist wrote a sizable number of fascinatingly strange piano pieces. Who knew?)Rather than use their New York bully pulpits to do more of what they do so well  or to give us simply music we already love  these two artists grabbed their opportunities to take chances and get audiences thinking.Celebrating Chopin, a central element of the Carnegie series, hardly seems daring. But Mr. Trifonov found a way to place this composers achievements in a fresh context. He began in October with a recital featuring pieces by Tchaikovsky, Mompou, Grieg, Barber and Rachmaninoff that had been written in homage to Chopin. He built, piece by piece, to the final offering, Chopins own Funeral March Sonata, giving an impetuous yet searching performance.Late last month, joined by the musicians of the string chamber orchestra Kremerata Baltica, Mr. Trifonov presented the most intriguing programs imaginable. In Chopins day, every emerging pianist was expected to show himself off in his own concertos. The young composer, under pressure, wrote two of them.Musically, for me, they are two of Chopins most personal and sublime works. Though there is plenty of dazzling piano writing in the scores, the real challenges come from the subtle intricacies folded into the piano part. His handling of the orchestra is generally considered no better than effective.Mr. Trifonov performed these works with the orchestral music arranged for strings by the composer Yevgeniy Sharlat. The warmth and richness of the strings placed a mellow cast on the orchestras contribution, turning it almost into chamber music, albeit for a large contingent of players.Mr. Trifonov embraced this chamber-style approach. Ive never heard the piano parts played with such intimacy and tenderness. Sometimes, I wanted just a little more definition, especially in the left-hand accompaniments. I wouldnt have minded some bursts of assertiveness now and then. Still, I was moved, and mightily impressed, that Mr. Trifonov would attempt such a mature and revealing experiment.Chopin wrote only a handful of chamber works, pieces you almost never hear. On the first of the concerto programs, Mr. Trifonov also played Chopins early Piano Trio with powerful partners: the eminent violinist Gidon Kremer, the founder of the Kremerata, and Giedr Dirvanauskait, a cellist from the ensemble.On the second evening, Mr. Trifonov performed Chopins Cello Sonata, a rhapsodic tangle of a piece, with the splendid Gautier Capuon. In both works, Chopin seems to be pouring out his pent-up thoughts about chamber music, to the point of overflow. Mr. Trifonov and his colleagues made sense of the music while playing it passionately.Mr. Andsness simpler concept for his Philharmonic residency was daring in its own way. On three subscription programs across the season, he performed three inexplicably neglected works for piano and orchestra by composers who otherwise could not be more familiar: Rachmaninoffs Fourth Concerto, the composers last, most modernist, most structurally radical concerto; Brittens unconventional, tartly Neo-Classical four-movement concerto; and, late last month, Debussys elegant, inventive Fantaisie for Piano and Orchestra.Sibelius was at the core of Mr. Andsness solo recital program on Wednesday at David Geffen Hall. He played several of the works he included on a recent Sibelius album on the Sony label. In the second half he turned to Schubert: two little-known, freewheeling Scherzos and the three Piano Pieces (D. 946), curious late works in which, below playful-seeming surfaces, troubling musical and emotional currents rustle.In between them, Mr. Andsnes played Jrg Widmanns Idyll and Abyss (2009), in which motifs and melodic fragments that evoke Schubert are folded into a modernist haze of clusters, harmonies and squiggling lines.Mr. Trifonov decided to conclude his Perspectives series at Zankel Hall with a fearlessly ambitious recital program, Decades, featuring works by nine composers spread throughout the 20th century, including Berg, Bartok, Stockhausen and John Adams.During this season, both Mr. Andsnes and Mr. Trifonov have been assuming the best of audiences, trusting that there are plenty of curious music-lovers out there. They were right.
