Taylor Mac isnt the only one doing 24-hour shows. A group of marathon performances will arrive at N.Y.U.s Skirball Center next season that will test the endurance of both the performers and the audience.The longest is Mount Olympus: to glorify the cult of tragedy, which runs for a full 24 hours starting on Nov. 10. Jan Fabres production features 38 performers portraying characters from Greek tragedy such as Oedipus, Agamemnon and Medea; they fight, engage in orgies, dance, sing operatic arias and take naps onstage. This is the works North American premiere  it first ran in Berlin in 2015.Its probably the most complicated thing Skirball has ever done, Jay Wegman, the centers artistic director, said in a phone interview. Were going to have to rent some semis for showers and things like that. He said the production has also rented out rooms upstairs in the Kimmel Center, where audience members will be able to eat, nap on cots and even take yoga classes.Gatz, Elevator Repair Services adaptation of The Great Gatsby, clocks in at a comparatively concise but nevertheless daunting eight hours. The word-for-word reading of F. Scott Fitzgeralds novel will run Jan. 23 through Feb. 3, with each performance containing two intermissions and a dinner break. The New York Times critic Ben Brantley called it a work of singular imagination and intelligence in his 2010 review.On Sept. 8, the experimental British theater company Forced Entertainment will present And On the Thousandth Night, a storytelling session that begins at midnight and continues until dawn. Created in 2000, the epic veers into contradiction and absurdity and changes from night to night.And a two-week festival dedicated to Karl Marx, called On Your Marx, will arrive Oct. 17. The festival will include dance parties, marathon readings from Das Kapital and a choral adaptation of The Communist Manifesto. True to form, the festival is free, but audience members will receive an invoice of the productions costs and then can choose to donate accordingly.Thats kind of a risk, Mr. Wegman said, laughing. But theres no way we could do a festival honoring the spirit of Marx and ask people to pay us cold hard cash.Next week, Skirball will host the 10-hour Bang on a Can festival, an annual marathon of new music. More information about that event, as well as next season full lineup, can be found at www.nyuskirball.org.
