Audiences are not used to seeing the pianist Daniil Trifonov sweat. Whatever intensity he brings to daunting pieces by Rachmaninoff or Liszt, he never appears pushed to his limits. Everything seems to come so easily.That changed on Friday, when Mr. Trifonov performed the seventh and final program of his ambitious Perspectives series for Carnegie Hall, a recital called Decades. The idea was to survey the 20th century by playing something from each decade  not short stopover pieces, but arduous, seminal works. He wanted, he said in an interview on Saturday, to dramatically show the evolution of piano writing, which was so rapid in the 20th century.Mr. Trifonov, also a composer, does play his own works, full of Romantic fervor and Scriabin-like colorings. But Daniil doing Stockhausen?Despite (and perhaps because of) its implausibility, the recital was a triumph. That it was clearly a herculean effort requiring tremendous mental focus and physical stamina  you could sometimes hear him breathing heavily  made it all the more impressive. I have seldom heard an artist put so much effort into a single concert.The audience in Zankel Hall was asked to refrain from applauding between pieces, which allowed Mr. Trifonov to create a spell, a continuous flow of shifting musical experiments. Of course, it also meant that he could not take a little breather after even the most exhausting works.He began with Bergs single-movement sonata, completed in 1908, which blends the last embers of late Wagnerian style with bursts of early-20th-century expressionist angst. Mr. Trifonov brought striking clarity to the wandering lyrical lines that thread through the music and savored the pungent sonorities of dense, chromatic chords.He played Prokofievs Sarcasms with pummeling energy and steely sound, and then conveyed the crunchy, pulsing brutality of Bartoks Out of Doors suite. He emphasized the flinty harmonic writing and jagged edges of Coplands 1930 Piano Variations, this composers most modernist work for the instrument. Mr. Trifonov may not have caught the echoes of bebop in passages where piano lines dart around nervously. Still, I loved his stern, chiseled take on the music.He then turned to a contemplative selection from Messiaens Vingt Regards sur lEnfant-Jsus and the musics mystical, tart beauties provided a welcome contrast  that is, until the piece broke into ecstatic wildness, exhilaratingly played by the tireless Mr. Trifonov.After intermission  yes, he gave himself (and us) an intermission  he teased out the brash humor in selections from Ligetis Musica Ricercata, which led effectively into Stockhausens Klavierstck IX, with its mix of biting clusters and jittery flights. Ive never heard John Adamss gurgling China Gates played with such delicacy and subtle colorings.Mr. Trifonov ended with John Coriglianos inventive, mercurial Fantasia on an Ostinato, from 1985. In a last-minute decision, Mr. Trifonov dropped the 10th piece that had been announced, the representative of the 1990s: Thomas Adss Traced Overhead. (He said that the original second half was disproportionately long and that the Corigliano made a more dramatic ending.)The enthusiastic audience seemed more than grateful for a riveting nine-decade journey.
