Our critics and reporters offer a glimpse of whats moved and delighted them over the past week. Read the rest of our classical music coverage here.Alas, the exigencies of scheduling meant that there were two overlapping performances I needed to attend last Sunday afternoon. In order to catch the entire Grand Finals Concert of the Metropolitan Operas National Council Auditions, I had to miss the second half of the  pianist Maurizio Pollinis recital at Carnegie Hall. During the first half, devoted to Chopin, Mr. Pollini was at his best, especially in an intense and mysterious performance of the Second Sonata. But I had to skip out before he played all of Book II of Debussys Prludes. He performed this set of pioneering pieces, along with some other Chopin works, in London in February. (Here he is in a recent interview talking about the connections between the two composers.) But check out his recording of the Prludes. In Fairies are Exquisite Dancers, a favorite, he draws gnarly strands from the swirling riffs, which makes these dancing fairies seem intriguingly dangerous. But not as dangerous as the final Fireworks prelude, which comes across here like a modernist inferno. ANTHONY TOMMASINIA time comes, inevitably, when you wonder if you are seeing an artist perform for the last time  and hope, beyond hope, that you are not. So it is with Bernard Haitink. Now 89, and as distinguished as conductors come, he has had a long association with the Boston Symphony. His name is absent, unusually, from its plans for next year, but there was nothing wistful or valedictory about his conducting last night at Symphony Hall. Instead, Brahmss Piano Concerto No. 2 (with Emanuel Ax) and Symphony No. 2 had all that familiar, staunch certainty that Mr. Haitink has in the classics: that firm warmth of sound, that lucidity of argument, that length of line, that gentle guidance, that imperturbable onward tread  calm, resolute, on. DAVID ALLENAt 7 minutes 23 secondsToday, theres likely no better way to experience a live performance of Duke Ellingtons extended work Black, Brown and Beige than in a concert by the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra. The trumpeter and composer Wynton Marsaliss group delivered a dazzling account of the nearly hourlong piece on Saturday. The themes of the first movement, Black, were profoundly shaped and brought into rich dialogue; the West Indian Dance section of the second movement offered galvanizing swing. And the vocalist Brianna Thomas provided a powerful rendition of the Blues section (also part of Brown).Afterward, I revisited a collaboration between this orchestra and the New York Philharmonic, only recently released: a performance of an orchestral version of Ellingtons A Tone Parallel to Harlem, recorded at a Philharmonic concert in 1999. As conducted by Kurt Masur, this version of an Ellington touchstone differs in subtly rewarding ways from a 1970 recording made by the Duke himself with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra (and on which string arrangements were likely provided by Luther Henderson).Midway through the Philharmonic performance, arranged by Mr. Marsalis, Ellingtons plunging ostinato line is given a graver sense of mystery than on most other takes. Perhaps its time for the Philharmonic to create another series with the Jazz at Lincoln Center players? If so, it might also be time to investigate some rarely heard symphonic repertoire by other improvising composers, such as James P. Johnson. SETH COLTER WALLSThe Canadian bass-baritone Gerald Finley dedicated the Russian portion of his stirring recital on Wednesday to his friend Dmitri Hvorostovsky, the great Russian baritone who died in November. Mr. Finley said that he had never entirely come to grips with Rachmaninoffs songs until he heard recordings of them by Mr. Hvorostovsky. One number in the program (joined by the pianist Julius Drake), Rachmaninoffs Christ Is Risen, to a text by Dmitri Merezhkovsky, tries to imagine how Christ would react today to acts of rampant inhumanity. Here is a performance of the song by Mr. Hvorostovsky, weightily dramatized with wartime film, from Tony Palmers 1998 documentary on Rachmaninoff, Harvest of Sorrow. JAMES R. OESTREICHRead our review of the recital.I was delighted to speak recently with the thoughtful young soprano Pretty Yende, whose international career has been taking off. She offered revealing comments about growing up as a black girl in South Africa who stumbled into opera at 16 when, of all things, she heard a British Airways television commercial. Ms. Yende is back at the Metropolitan Opera singing the title role of Donizettis Lucia di Lammermoor. (There are two more performances.) It took courage to sing this daunting role. But she had a breakthrough success with Lucia in 2016 at the Paris Opera. Here she is singing the climax of the mad scene during that run. ANTHONY TOMMASINIRead our profile of Ms. Yende.The mezzo-soprano Tamara Mumfords recital at the Frick Collection, with the pianist Adam Nielsen, was a clever exercise in easing an audience (in this case, exactly what youd expect at an Upper East Side museum on a Sunday evening) into unfamiliar territory. Across six languages and genres, she nimbly brought us from the Rossini cantata Giovanna dArco  gripping and all the more urgent in the enveloping acoustics of the Fricks Music Room  to excerpts from William Bolcoms Cabaret Songs (1963-96). Ms. Mumfords voice has filled the Metropolitan Opera House with ease and penetrated through the New York Philharmonic playing Wagner, yet she was engrossingly intimate in Bolcom: sometimes even eschewing vibrato and delivering quiet, seductive Sprechstimme. Blue, which you can hear in this recording from the recital, is shamelessly a torch song  light years from the fiery coloratura of Giovanna dArco, but just as compellingly sung. JOSHUA BARONEThe revelation of the Cleveland Orchestras poised concert performances of Wagners Tristan und Isolde last week wasnt Nina Stemme, the Isolde  everyone knows how big and easy her voice is. No, the discovery was the mezzo-soprano Okka von der Damerau, sounding velvety yet direct and fresh as Brangne. Shes a member of the ensemble at the Bavarian State Opera in Munich, where she sang Ulrica in Verdis Un Ballo in Maschera a couple of years ago; this video shows her in steady, penetrating voice. Her high notes are particularly strong and blooming, leading me to wonder if we have a budding dramatic soprano on our hands. ZACHARY WOOLFERead about Tristan in Cleveland.The Clevelanders concert on Saturday, riffing on the Tristan performances, focused on divine ecstasy. Baroque brass works and hypnotic contemporary choral pieces gave way to a Bach cantata with the countertenor Iestyn Davies and, in closing, Liszts sprawling, visionary Fantasy and Fugue on a chorale from Meyerbeers opera Le Prophte. The soloist, Paul Jacobs, drew some uncanny sounds  church bells!  from the Severance Hall organ, and managed to shape the music into something nearly coherent. Heres Mr. Jacobs in a very different kind of visionary style: Lou Harrisons teeming Concerto for Organ and Percussion Orchestra. ZACHARY WOOLFE
