Alone onstage at a memorial concert for a musician named Jump, the longhaired singer looks like shes stepped out of a time capsule from the 1970s: bell-bottom jeans, a patchwork blouse, a studded leather vest with fringe that goes on for days.Her name is Joy, and shes the remaining half of a longtime musical duo called Jump and Joy. Jump  her partner offstage, too, and the father of their grown child  died about a year ago. Now Joy is headlong in love with a woman named Lou.The tone-deaf scheme that propels Unexpected Joy, a culture-clash Me generation musical by Bill Russell (Side Show) and Janet Hood, is Joys plan to marry Lou the day after the memorial  because, what the heck, her daughter and teenage granddaughter will already be in town. First, though, she has to tell them that Lou exists.Directed by Amy Anders Corcoran for the York Theater Company, Unexpected Joy pits the hippy-dippy Joy (Luba Mason) against her prudish, semi-estranged daughter, Rachel (Courtney Balan), whose parents called her Rainbow. Rebelling against the chaos of her childhood, she married a conservative who became a televangelist.Rachels own daughter, Tamara (Celeste Rose), has inherited her grandparents musical passion and seemingly their liberal politics, too. Shes delighted about Lou (Allyson Kaye Daniel), a singer with a big personality who is not thrilled to discover that she was kept a secret in the first place.Set in Provincetown, Mass., the show had its premiere on Cape Cod two summers ago with a different director and cast. Revised since then, it retains both its primary strengths  Ms. Hoods music and Mr. Russells lyrics, though their title song is still underwhelming  and its fatal weaknesses: Mr. Russells strained plot and sitcom-shallow dialogue, and a central character so self-absorbed that you have to wonder what Lou, who is a catch, sees in her.Ms. Masons performance, which wasnt word-perfect at the performance I saw, is the least assured in an otherwise strong cast. Ms. Daniel makes a funny, likable Lou  except when Lou tosses down a sudden wedding ultimatum. But thats a moment that no one could pull off. She heats up the stage when she sings, especially in the bluesy Shes Got a Mind of Her Own.Ms. Balan brings restraint and a vital touch of sympathy to Rachel, while Ms. Rose makes Tamaras big song  a furious indie-rock number called Like a Good Girl  a high point. But would these two characters, a conservative Christian and a daughter still under her roof, wear clothes as form-fitting as what Matthew Pachtman dresses them in?James Morgans set is handsomely framed, but the heavy furniture makes it clunky. It doesnt help when a line in the script tries to explain why two wingback chairs sit on a concert stage. Its an awkward moment, and perfectly in keeping with the ungainly spirit of this show.
