Marin Ireland is one of the great drama queens of the New York stage.Im referring to her roles, of course: a colossally ticked-off lover in reasons to be pretty, for example, or an actual queen in David Adjmis Marie Antoinette. But whether playing a Polish immigrant wrestling with America or a grasping arriviste in prerevolutionary Russia, she comes off as contemporary; her Marie was a Valley Girl with an updo.In short, Ms. Ireland specializes in modern women caught between their intelligence and their circumstances. That makes her a fascinating if counterintuitive choice to star in Tennessee Williamss Summer and Smoke, which is mostly set in the mid-1910s. In the otherwise lackluster revival that opened on Thursday evening  a Classic Stage Company and Transport Group coproduction directed by Jack Cummings III  the choice pays off; Ms. Ireland is riveting as the passionate yet prudish Alma Winemiller.Mocked by her contemporaries as a white-blooded spinster, though she is just in her 20s, Alma is one of Williamss most complicated creatures. As a ministers daughter in Glorious Hill, Miss., she aspires to the finer elements of humanity; her given name, she keeps pointing out, means soul in Spanish. Yet she flirts inexorably with coarser, more corporeal entanglements.In Williamss world (if no longer our own), this is understood as a recipe for hysteria  that condition in which, according to men, a womans stifled sexuality attacks her body, leading to languors, palpitations, spells and worse. Indeed, in some ways, Summer and Smoke, which had its Broadway premiere in 1948, is a spiritual prequel to A Streetcar Named Desire, which opened a year earlier. Its a how-to guide to becoming Blanche DuBois.Start with a martinet of a father (T. Ryder Smith), so hung up on the appearance of propriety that he fulminates when his wife licks an ice cream cone in public. Then theres that mother (Barbara Walsh): a malicious, possibly crazy woman who has dealt with a bad marriage by reverting to emotional infancy.Next give Alma a hankering for poetry and cathedrals in a town that has none, and a job teaching voice to unmusical girls. This while substituting for her mother as the rectorys chatelaine, with all the submission and drudgery that entails.Finally add as her impossible love the glamorously tortured boy next door. The son of a revered local physician, John Buchanan (Nathan Darrow) is a physician, too: the kind that needs to heal himself. Years spent trying to escape from under his fathers thumb have left him a confirmed sensualist and serial screw-up, wearing his crisp white linen suits as if they were on fire.The relationship between Alma and John, begun in childhood, blossoms in the months of the plays main action into a game of erotic cat-and-mouse and, at the same time, a philosophical grudge match. John diagnoses Almas hysteria  saying she has an irritated doppelgnger  as Alma denounces his fleshly weakness. Underlining the point a bit thickly, Williams associates each with a relevant symbol: Almas a stone statue of an angel called Eternity, and Johns an anatomy chart.Those, and a few chairs, are just about the only props youll find in Mr. Cummingss production. As the artistic director of Transport Group, he is known for minimalist, or essentialist, stagings, like an endearing unisex version of I Remember Mama in 2014. Doing more with less is also the house style of Classic Stage under John Doyle, who has revived musicals as different as Sweeney Todd and The Color Purple by depriving them of distracting stagecraft.But this Summer and Smoke has been scraped too close to the bone. Dane Laffreys big white shoe box, or coffin, of a set conveys all too well Almas empty prospects but offers nothing to suggest either the suffocating trap of her Victorian circumstances or the richness and romance of her imagination. Her statue of Eternity is not even stone; its a framed photograph.Williams specified minimalism  no doors or windows  but he meant something more poetic by it. In his production notes he refers to de Chirico and Renaissance paintings as a way of suggesting the natural world Alma must finally embrace. Which is not to say Summer and Smoke is hopeful; Alma and John convert each other too late, ending up, once again, on opposite sides of love. But it mustnt play out its bleakness too soon or theres nothing to lose, and thus no drama.Ms. Irelands imagination is so well calibrated that she manages, almost single-handedly, to correct for that distortion. If this Summer and Smoke were performed silently you could still understand the story from her physicalization of Almas character. More than that, her manic laughter, gulping breaths and drooping shocks are carried off with such authenticity that they reframe hysteria as a natural, even brave, response to deprivation and constant insult.But of course a silent performance would not be Williams, and if much of the dialogue has a high butterfat content, Ms. Ireland delivers it naturally. Mr. Darrow, properly dashing and tortured as John, hasnt quite achieved that facility; his emphasis on the characters self-loathing and cynicism sometimes makes him seem hollow instead of harrowed.Williams is partly to blame. Johns feelings for Alma arent as clear as hers are for him, and he often hovers, like the rest of the residents of Glorious Hill  especially the stereotypically passionate Mexican family that runs the local casino  on the verge of caricature. Williams tried to solve these problems with massive rewriting; the result was The Eccentricities of a Nightingale, which puts the main characters in a rather different framework.Eccentricities is an improvement, but Summer and Smoke is nevertheless Williams, with veins of rich pathos to be mined from its melodrama. Surely its central question remains profound: Why do we fall in love with a persons struggle instead of with the person himself? If this revival doesnt address that question convincingly except in its central performance, I dont blame the cast, which also features Tina Johnson as the local busybody, Ryan Spahn as a traveling salesman and Hannah Elless as a pupil of Almas who turns out to be a rival.No, its the parsimony of the production thats at fault, offering little thats lovely except Michael John LaChiusas original music, in an apt neoclassical mode. Perhaps its fitting that music should be the one element that gives you a taste of what this Summer and Smoke might have been with such an eloquent Alma if it hadnt, like her, spent so much energy stifling its passion.
