Shortly after Katharine McPhee and Leslie Odom Jr., announced the nominees for the 2018 Tony Awards on Tuesday morning, Ben Brantley and Jesse Green, chief theater critics for The New York Times, took a first look at the results of this years game of musical (and nonmusical) chairs. Or maybe the right metaphor in the season of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child would be Quidditch?[Musicals lead nominations | Who is nominated? | Nominee reactions]BEN BRANTLEY Good morning, Jesse, on this hallowed day of tributes to the Boy Who Lived and Made His Creator Rich. J.K. Rowling is now a Tony-nominated producer, for Cursed Child, which received 10 nods. I presume youre still nursing your breakfast margarita, in homage to Escape to (or is it From, I always forget) Margaritaville, your personal dark horse, which received no nominations. It seems rather cruel to make these announcements so early in the morning, given that so many of those nominated are creatures of the night.JESSE GREEN Hey, its 5 oclock somewhere, as Jimmy Buffett reminds us in Margaritaville. But they are probably not celebrating in the cabana from that show, which fell victim not only to its own qualities, but to updated Tony Award math. A new rule this year from the Tony administration committee decreed that only categories with nine or more eligible competitors will get the usual five nominees.BRANTLEY Does that mean that some categories never reached their thresholds?GREEN Why yes! Because this has been a very slim Broadway season, the threshold was not reached in several of them. Thats basically why the same four shows were nominated for Best Musical, Best Score and Best Book: The Bands Visit, SpongeBob SquarePants, Frozen and Mean Girls. (Angels in America got a surprise nomination for its score, even though its a play.) Left out in each case were Margaritaville, Prince of Broadway, Summer and Rocktopia. All of those received mediocre to blistering reviews  and none were eligible in any case for Best Score, because they used pre-existing music. Take that, ye unholy jukeboxes!BRANTLEY So if were going by quantity (and were Americans, so we are), the biggest winners in terms of nominations are Mean Girls and SpongeBob, which racked up a dozen apiece. I have the feeling, though, that those nominations will definitely not be translating into a double-digit trophy count for either show. The biggest surprise here is the lack of love shown Frozen, the heir apparent to Wicked as an evergreen teenage dream of Broadway.GREEN That seems to put into question the supposed power of big international brands.BRANTLEY On the other hand, Harry Potter rules. In this case the magic name of Disney wasnt powerful enough.GREEN Frozen did get nominations in three big categories: musical, score and book, but all of those were nearly by default, thanks to the math mentioned above. Perhaps most surprising was that neither Caissie Levy nor Patti Murin, as Elphaba and Glinda  er, I mean, Elsa and Anna  got nods for lead actress, even though there was apparently a near-tie in the category. (Thats why there were six nominations instead of five.) Perhaps, as the conventional wisdom goes, the princesses split the vote.BRANTLEY That reindeer was robbed!GREEN I think we are approaching a moment when puppetry, magic and special animal effects will have to get a category.BRANTLEY Agreed, which would definitely add another few notches to the belt of nominations for Cursed Child.GREEN Cursed Child was nominated in just about every category it was eligible for, as were Angels, SpongeBob, My Fair Lady and The Bands Visit. Carousel had a similar haul, notably excepting direction, which is always an odd thing; who but the director, in this case Jack OBrien, made all those other choices?BRANTLEY It was interesting to see that two musical revivals which were controversial simply for being revived  My Fair Lady and Carousel  did just fine in terms of nominations. There had been fears that these old-fashioned shows takes on their heroines, who are both bullied by their love interests, might be out of sync in this #MeToo moment.GREEN Given the math of the season, theyd have to have been positively Stone Age in their sexual politics not to reap a lot of nominations. That said, the third musical revival, Once on This Island, which faced similar criticism from some quarters, also cleaned up, especially for its fantastic design elements. The surprise, for me, was that Alex Newell, who plays the goddess Asaka, did not get noticed. He stopped the show.BRANTLEY Once on This Island is one show that could benefit from wider exposure. Its charming but also quite rousing. I can imagine Asakas song Mama Will Provide, for instance, bringing down the house on Tony night. Speaking of showboating performers, how about the nomination of Latin History for Morons as best play? Im a devoted John Leguizamo fan and am more fond of that show than you, but it does feel like a category filler in this case.GREEN If Latin History for Morons had not been nominated, what else would have filled the slot? Though I really liked John Lithgows Stories by Heart, its not exactly Tony bait. In general, smaller plays, bad plays and those that opened early in the season fared poorly, as usual.BRANTLEY The best-stocked category this year, by far, would appear to be revivals of plays. Roundabout did manage to score some significant nods for its delightful Travesties revival, an import from the Menier Chocolate Factory in London.GREEN And Manhattan Theater Club got some deserved love, if not in my opinion enough nominations, for its production of Lucy Kirkwoods terrifying The Children, an import from the Royal Court Theater.BRANTLEY The woebegone Land of Brexit is very well represented here in general, what with Cursed Child (which first opened in the West End) and Angels (from Londons National Theater), which have 21 nominations between them.GREEN Any other notable picks or disses to mention? Ill start: I was sorry not to see Laura Benanti nominated for her hilarious work in the otherwise meh Meteor Shower, by Steve Martin. Comic performances are often ignored, though they are at least as difficult as weepy screamers. On the other hand, I was very happy to see Brian Tyree Henry nominated for his role as a security officer in Lobby Hero.BRANTLEY He was sensational. But I was sorry that Chris Evans was excluded (no Captain America on Tony night!), since I thought every member of the Lobby Hero ensemble was first-rate.GREEN Even Mr. Evanss mustache deserves an award. See puppetry/magic/special effects above.
