Subscribe: iTunes | Google Play MusicRichard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II never go out of style. A revival of their musical Carousel recently opened at the Imperial Theater.On this weeks podcast, Todd S. Purdum discusses his new book, Something Wonderful: Rodgers and Hammersteins Broadway Revolution, which offers a fresh look at the milieu and circumstances that contributed to the creation of some of the musical theaters greatest and most enduring treasures.ImageIts almost as if they were fated to wind up collaborating with each other, Mr. Purdum says of the pair. Something Wonderful, from The King and I, is among Mr. Purdums favorite songs by the team. Its a reflection of the redemptive power of love, he says. In any relationship, no ones perfect. But theres something about the sweep of those words and the way they fit with the music. Thats a pretty compelling song. But Id be hard-pressed to pick just a single favorite one.Also on the podcast, Fran Leadon talks about Broadway: A History of New York City in Thirteen Miles; Alexandra Alter has news from the literary world; and Dwight Garner, Parul Sehgal and Jennifer Szalai talk about the books theyve recently reviewed. Pamela Paul is the host.Here are the books discussed by The Timess critics this week:Motherhood by Sheila HetiThe Moralist: Woodrow Wilson and the World He Made by Patricia OTooleSlave Old Man by Patrick ChamoiseauBarracoon by Zora Neale HurstonWe would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Reviews podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes.com.How do I listen? Two waysFrom a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above.Or if youre on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series.1. Open your podcast app. Its a pre-loaded app called Podcasts with a purple icon.2. Search for the series. Tap on the search magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in Inside The New York Times Book Review and select it from the list of results.3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the subscribe button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives.4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, youll be able to stream the episode.On your Android phone or tablet:1. Open your podcast app. Its a pre-loaded app called Play Music with an orange-and-yellow icon.2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series, and select it from the list of results. You might have to scroll down to find the Podcasts search results.3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word subscribe to have new episodes sent to your phone for free.4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, youll be able to stream the episode.
