Now that the Broadway season has officially concluded, you may want to venture away from the packed precincts of Times Square, where the blockbusters rule. A promising roster of Off Broadway productions this month are available to take you as near as Harlem (as envisioned in Stephen Adly Guirgiss Our Lady of 121st Street) and as far away as the Lambeth district of London (for the Encores! concert production of Me and My Girl). And Jeremy Irons and Lesley Manville arrive in Brooklyn with Long Days Journey Into Night.Me and My GirlA perky reminder that My Fair Lady, currently reincarnated at Lincoln Center Theater, wasnt the only crowd-pleaser with singing Cockneys to tickle New York theatergoers fancies. Noel Gays music hall-flavored show from 1937 became an unexpected Broadway smash when it was presented in 1986  in a production starring Robert Lindsay as one elluva jokey bloke who learns hes the heir to an earldom  and ran for three years. For the new Encores! interpretation, opening May 9 at New York City Center, the nimble Christian Borle slides into Mr. Dales dancing shoes to lean on lampposts and perform the Lambeth Walk with Laura Michelle Kelly (who high-stepped with Cockney chimney sweeps in Mary Poppins on Broadway) as the girl of the title. Warren Carlyle is the director and choreographer.Tickets: nycitycenter.orgDance NationTwo years ago, Ill Never Love Again, a startling musical play at the Bushwick Starr in Brooklyn, conveyed the agonies and ecstasies of being adolescent and female with a thoroughly original vitality. So it is excellent news that its author, Clare Barron, is revisiting that age of semi-innocence with Dance Nation, a group portrait of 13-year-old girls preparing for the Boogie Down Grand Prix competition in Tampa, Fla. Directed by Lee Sunday Evans at Playwrights Horizons, this production features grown women portraying the pubescent heroines, who demonstrate that down-and-dirty locker room talk is by no means exclusive to boys.Tickets: playwrightshorizons.org Long Days Journey Into NightThe British director Richard Eyres taut version of Ibsens Ghosts, staged at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 2015, provided the most suspenseful interpretation of that revolutionary drama Ive ever seen. Now Mr. Eyre returns to the academy with another daunting classic of familial love and hatred, Eugene ONeills Long Days Journey Into Night. This production, which originated at the Bristol Old Vic, auspiciously stars Lesley Manville (a sensational Mrs. Alving in Ghosts) and Jeremy Irons as torturously married parents who give full credence to Philip Larkins much-quoted line about how mom and dad inevitably mess up their progeny.Tickets: bam.orgOperation CruciblePart of the essential Brits Off Broadway Festival, which allows New Yorkers to see choice British shows that might otherwise never make it here, Kieran Knowless debut play finds four World War II-era steel workers trapped in a hotel cellar in Sheffield, England, during the Blitz. I had the good fortune to catch this efficiently harrowing production in London at the tiny Finborough Theater, and it wasnt just the size of the house that induced a vivid sense of entrapment. Bryony Shanahan directs this 80-minute, four-character work, with a cast that includes Mr. Knowles.Tickets: britsoffbroadway.comOur Lady of 121st StreetAs he demonstrated with his Tony-nominated Broadway debut with an unprintable title and his Pulitzer Prize-winning Between Riverside and Crazy, Stephen Adly Guirgis has one of the most eloquently foul mouths of any American playwright. So expect plenty of poetic expletives in Our Lady of 121st Street, Mr. Guirgiss 2002 dark comedy about a funeral in Harlem with a missing guest of honor (the saintly title characters corpse). This revival from the Signature Theater, which staged a much-acclaimed production of Mr. Guirgiss Jesus Hopped the A Train earlier this season, is directed by Phylicia Rashad.Tickets: signaturetheater.org
