Another week, another streaming record for rap music.Post Malone, the 22-year-old rapper who cant stop making sing-songy hits, has topped the Billboard album chart with his second LP, Beerbongs & Bentleys, earning both the largest sales week of the year so far and the most streams ever in a week (though the streaming era is, of course, only a few years old).His album, released by Republic Records, moved a total of 461,000 units by the industrys math, combining 153,000 in traditional sales and a gobsmacking 431 million plays on streaming services, according to Nielsen. That easily cleared the previous benchmark of 385 million streams, set by Drakes More Life last year, and dwarfed last weeks blockbuster, KOD by J. Cole. (Post Malone might want to celebrate while he can; Drake will be back with the album Scorpion next month.)The digital dominance was so thorough that out of the 10 most-streamed songs tallied by Nielsen for the week, eight came from Post Malones album. The other two? Drake, whose Hot 100-topping Nice for What remained the most popular.Rounding out Post Malones monster week, his debut album, Stoney, from December 2016, jumped back into the Top 10 with 40 million streams of its own, good enough for No. 9.At No. 2 on the chart is a more old-school model: Graffiti U by the country singer Keith Urban sold a total of 145,000 copies, including just 8 million streams. J. Coles KOD fell to No. 3 (21,000 in sales, 123 million in streams) and Cardi Bs Invasion of Privacy is No. 4 in its fourth week out. The soundtrack for The Greatest Showman, a persistent chart presence for nearly half a year, fell to No. 5.While streamings power is only growing, Billboard is tweaking how it counts what has become the dominant format for music consumption. In changes first announced last year but detailed only last week, the chart-makers said that paid subscription streams (as on Apple Music, Amazon Music or Spotifys paid tier) will count more than free streams on ad-supported services (like YouTube or the free tiers of Spotify and SoundCloud), starting on June 29.On the album chart, known as the Billboard 200, 1,500 streams from anywhere are currently equal to one album sold. Under the new system, 1,250 paid streams or 3,750 free streams will equal one unit, while the math on the Hot 100 singles chart will have multiple weighted tiers as well.
