By their mid-20s, talented pianists  or violinists, or instrumentalists of any kind  are typically not just poised for a career but already up and running.Operatic voices, however, tend to take much longer to emerge and develop. Most young singers are still exploring their dimensions and characteristics. That came through clearly on Sunday afternoon during the grand finals of the Metropolitan Operas National Council Auditions, perhaps the most prestigious competition in opera.The possibility of hearing the next Frederica von Stade, Thomas Hampson, Rene Fleming or Eric Owens  to mention a few past finalists  has long made the this contest irresistible to opera fans. But what are the experts listening for? Are they awarding the performances they hear, or the potential they discern?On Sunday, nine finalists  interestingly all women, except for one tenor  performed two arias each with the Met Orchestra, led by Bertrand de Billy. My guess is that at least two of the five winners were selected for what their performances suggested they might be capable of, with a little more nurturing.For her first aria, the soprano Jessica Faselt, 25, sang Tacea la notte from Verdis Il Trovatore, including the quick-paced cabaletta at the end. This music demands a lirico spinto voice, which combines qualities of lighter lyric roles with weightier dramatic aspects. A true spinto is a rarity.From her first phrases, Ms. Faselt demonstrated that she might be the real thing. Her sound was rich, full and luminous throughout its range. Yet she sounded slightly tentative at times; I wanted more fervor and spontaneity. And I was bothered by her occasionally lax approach to rhythmic execution.After intermission, she brought gleaming sound and a little more intensity to Dich, teure Halle from Wagners Tannhuser. Might she be a Wagnerian in the making? In choosing her, the judges seemed to be placing their bets.Hongni Wu, 23, a mezzo-soprano, brought technical agility, warm colorings and an ample sound to Cruda sorte, a bel canto showpiece from Rossinis LItaliana in Algeri. Then, after intermission, in a bold choice, she sang the opening scene of Strausss Der Rosenkavalier with youthful bloom and richness. Well have to see if she follows the path of the coloratura-happy Marilyn Horne or the refined, lyrical Susan Graham.The three other winners struck me as more fully formed. The appealing, technically solid mezzo-soprano Ashley Dixon, 26, excelled in arias from Glucks Orphe et Euridice and Massenets Cendrillon. Madison Leonard, 26, a soprano, brought a bright, dexterous voice and sassy charm to an aria from Humperdincks Hnsel und Gretel, and was especially at home in Caro nome from Verdis Rigoletto. She seems headed intrepidly into the lyric-coloratura repertory. But who knows?Carlos Enrique Santelli, 26, was for me the most easily categorized: a light-voiced, assured bel canto tenor, in the manner of Juan Diego Flrez. Mr. Santelli won big ovations for dispatching a florid, showy aria from Rossinis La Cenerentola and (a Flrez specialty) Ah! mes amis from Donizettis La Fille du Rgiment, complete with a string of confident high Cs.The other finalists were the soprano Emily Misch, the mezzo-soprano Megan Grey, the soprano Danielle Beckvermit and the mezzo-soprano Gretchen Krupp. They should take comfort in knowing that the afternoons host, Joyce DiDonato, took part twice in the National Council Auditions and never even made it to the Met stage. Today, shes a star.
