Have you been to an art museum recently? What was your visit like? How did you experience the art? How did other patrons interact with it?In What the Mona Lisa Tells Us About Art in the Instagram Era, Scott Reyburn writes:The young couple moved to the front of the crowd to look at the painting. After a few seconds, the woman turned around, smiled into her cellphone and took some selfies. Next, she handed her device to her husband, who took more formal shots of her in front of the work. The two then posed arm in arm for selfies together, turned to have a last brief look at the painting  and moved away.Its too small, and its too crowded to get close to look at the detail, said the woman, Jeannie Li, 28, a financial analyst in Shanghai, unimpressed by her first sight of Leonardo da Vincis Mona Lisa. I can see it better in a book or on the internet.The way the couple interacted with the 500-year-old painting exemplifies how differently the digital generation experiences art. Most of the roughly 150 people crowded around the painting at the Louvre were taking photographs of the piece, or of themselves in front of it. In the presence of the Mona Lisa, digital photography, more than looking at the actual artwork, has become the primary experience.Ms. Li and her husband, Steven, were in Paris for their honeymoon. Why had she wanted to visit the Louvre and see this particular artwork? Because its famous, because of its mysterious smile, and because I read The Da Vinci Code,  Ms. Li said, referring to the best-selling novel by Dan Brown, which opens with the shooting of a curator in the museums Grand Gallery.In 2017, the Louvre attracted 8.1 million visitors, retaining its long-held status as the worlds most visited museum. Leonardos enigmatic, infinitely reproduced portrait of a woman thought to be Lisa Gherardini, the wife of a Florentine cloth merchant, is the star attraction. Made in oil on wood in the early 16th century, the painting is presented in a temperature-controlled capsule behind bulletproof glass and a protective barrier.A lot of people take photos and post them on Twitter or Facebook, Ms. Li said. Its evidence that Ive been there. Students: Read the entire article, then tell us: In your opinion, how is art meant to be experienced? In person, online or in books? At a museum, in ones home or out on the streets? Alone or with a crowd? Intellectually or emotionally? In some other way entirely? Why do you think so? Which works of art would you most like to see in person? Why? Is it because you want to study them up close? Do you want the opportunity to experience them viscerally? Or do you want to see them simply because they are famous? What are some of the benefits and drawbacks of viewing art in the digital age? Do you think the digital era  and all that comes with it, like increased accessibility, selfie tourism, social media and short attention spans  is improving or ruining the experience of art? Why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
