It feels like Kanye West hasnt stopped talking in weeks.Since his return to Twitter last month, the rapper and designer has used 280 characters as his preferred medium to share news of forthcoming albums (and clothes), philosophical musings, polarizing political views (including support for President Trump) and detailed text messages with famous friends concerned about his recent ideological direction.What Mr. West, 40, had not done, until the release of a 105-minute video interview on Tuesday, was speak at length on any of the hot-button topics that have swirled around him since the tumultuous period in late 2016 that ended with his hospitalization  and a visit to Trump Tower.In his first extended interview since, conducted by the Power 105 morning show host Charlamagne Tha God at Mr. Wests California home on April 18, the musician appeared calm and lucid as he addressed a wide array of controversies, aspirations and regrets. But soon after the video was published, Mr. West made a taped appearance at TMZ headquarters, touching on many of the same points at a higher emotional frequency, including several statements about slavery that inspired outrage on social media.[The battle for Kanye West is happening in real time.]Below is a cheat sheet for Tuesdays winding excursion through the mind of Kanye.On his November 2016 hospitalization Mr. West prefers to think of his breakdown as a breakthrough, he said. He cited stress, both personal and professional, including the robbery of his wife, Kim Kardashian, in Paris that October and the lack of radio play for his album The Life of Pablo.Ever since the Taylor Swift moment, its never been the same  the connection with radio, Mr. West said. Because he was one of the most famous people on the planet, he added, I didnt understand it.Still, There was elements about going to the hospital and having a breakdown  or a breakthrough  that was fire, Mr. West said. It was incredible, the feeling, which he compared to an out-of-body experience.On the aftermath Following the hospitalization, I had lost my confidence, Mr. West said  it just wasnt Black Panther, Superman-level confidence anymore.I never had the empathy for people who lacked confidence. I had so much of it that I didnt know what it was like to be without it. He added: It was incredible because it was forced humility. Previously, I wouldve looked at humility as more of a negative thing. But that humility, he said, gave me time to grow.On opioids, medication and liposuctionI was drugged out, Mr. West said on TMZ, about the period preceding his hospitalization. I was on opioids. Two days after I got off of opioids, Im errrrrr  Im in the hospital. He said he had been prescribed the pills after undergoing a liposuction procedure. I had plastic surgery because I was trying to look good for yall, he told the staff of the gossip outlet. Didnt want yall to call me fat, so I got liposuction. And they gave me opioids.Mr. West said he went from taking two pills a day after the surgery to taking seven, but that he was no longer on as much medication. These pills that they want me to take three of a day, I take one a week maybe, two a week. Yall had me scared of myself, of my vision. So I took some pills so I wouldnt go to the hospital and prove everyone right. We are drugged out! We are following other peoples opinions. We are controlled by the media. And today it all changes.On racismMr. West began a diatribe on race by citing new lyrics. I got this rap that says: Parents are the strippers/strip they kids of their confidence/teach white dominance/question your common sense/Ive been washed in tradition, now Imma rinse/hopped off the Amistad and made Im a God.He went on to explain that the conversation about putting Harriet Tubman on the $20 bill was the moment that I wanted to use Bitcoin, adding: Its like when you see all the slave movies. Why you gotta keep reminding us about slavery? Why dont you show us  put Michael Jordan on a $20 bill.In reference to Martin Luther King Jr., and Malcolm X, he added: Man, I know this is going to cause an uproar, but certain icons are just too far in the past and not relatable and thats what makes them safe.(In a follow-up appearance Tuesday on TMZ, Mr. West was more scattered on the subject. When you hear about slavery for 400 years  for 400 years? he said. That sounds like a choice. You was there for 400 years and its all of yall? Were mentally in prison.)On his first meeting with President-elect Trump in December 2016That was almost like a Clayton Bigsby moment  when everybodys head exploded, Mr. West said, alluding to a Chappelles Show skit in which a blind racist does not know hes black.Mr. West said he imagined his fans believing this dude has to diss Trump at all points, at all costs, because of his past comments like George Bush doesnt care about black people. Friends, he said, asked him, What makes George Bush any more racist than Trump?My response is: Well, racism isnt the deal breaker for me. If that was the case, I wouldnt live in America, Mr. West said, arguing that even as a rich black man, he continues to face discrimination. In this gated community, I deal with it.Later in the interview, after referencing the murder rate in his native Chicago, Mr. West said that he had decided to meet with Mr. Trump because he wanted to do something, to change something.I would meet with him today, he said. And I would talk about Chicago.On the disastrous Yeezy Season 4 fashion show Mr. West also referenced a Sept. 2016 event for his fashion line on Roosevelt Island as contributing to his dark period. Plagued by extended delays, unseasonably hot weather and fainting and falling models, the show was roundly panned and mocked.I was 45 minutes late and they LeBron-ed me, bro, Mr. West said. Like when LeBron went to Miami and they just killed him and burned his jersey. He continued: I felt it was the fashion community getting the right to say nigger without saying it, because they did not appreciate his approach to fashion, which Mr. West referred to as stepping on necks.If you get out of line, boy, we gon roast you, he said. It affected me because Im an artist.On therapyMr. West told Charlamagne that he was not currently in traditional therapy. I use the world as my therapy  as my therapist, he said, adding that he prefers to talk with friends and family. I will pull them into the conversation of what Im feeling at that point and get their perspective, he said. Its kind of narcissistic.Twitter, he added, was not exactly a form of therapy for him. I think everything is therapeutic, but Im not doing it as a form of personal therapy, he said. Its just an innate feeling. I want to express. I decided to use this platform to express some breakthroughs that Ive had since going to the hospital. He added: There will be mistakes, flaws in the way I communicate today. Im not media trained. Im just saying exactly what I feel out of love.On mental health I want to change the stigma of crazy, of mental health  period, Mr. West said. Best believe Im going to take the stigma off the word crazy.On his fractured relationship with Jay-ZResponding to a question about recent Jay-Z lyrics aimed at him (You gave him 20 million without blinkin/He gave you 20 minutes onstage), Mr. West said: Im a very loyal, emotional artist  that made me feel like I owed more than the money itself. (Mr. West explained that the money in question was from a touring deal he made with Live Nation while signed to Jay-Zs management company, Roc Nation.)The pair, longtime collaborators, have been texting each other, Mr. West said: I havent seen him, but I can feel him.Still, he said he had been hurt by Jay-Z and Beyoncs failure to attend his 2014 wedding to Ms. Kardashian. I understand that they were going through some things, but if its family, youre not going to miss a wedding, he said. I gotta state my truth.On debtEven when I tweeted that I was in debt, that gave me power, Mr. West said. I took my power back, like, Man, my financial situation dont make me. Im in debt  now what? And Im still Ye.On the Paris robbery If she wasnt here I would never forgive myself, Mr. West said of his wife, detailing the security issues he and his family face. Its just bugged out when youre super high-profile. Youre as famous as the president, he said, but you have to provide your own protection. Since the robbery, Mr. West and Ms. Kardashian keep no high-priced art or jewelry any place where our kids stay, he said.On his trademark Kanye RantsI actually think that the rants came from the place of a bravery, he said of the extended diatribes he would often issue on tour. I had enough of the politics.Bravery is more important than perfection, Mr. West added. Feeling is more important than thought.On NikeMr. West, whose Yeezy line is partnered with Adidas, has long harbored a grudge against Nike for failing to empower him within the company after he designed a successful Nike shoe. I love Nike  I loved Nike. I had to put the -ed on it for the stockholders, he said. It was heartbreaking for me to have to leave Nike, but they refused to allow me to get royalty on my shoe and I knew I had the hottest shoe in the world.But he addressed the companys chief executive, Mark Parker, with some regret. I just got to speak out as a parent and apologize to this man for ever speaking ill on his name and his company, Mr. West said. Because he gave me that shot.As for Puma, another possible partner, Mr. West said: The dude that didnt sign me at Puma definitely needs to lose his job. Im not going to say his name but, can you imagine?On his fractured relationship with Barack ObamaMr. West spoke at length about his relationship with the former president, which was damaged after a video leaked in 2009 in which Mr. Obama, reacting to Mr. Wests infamous outburst at the MTV Video Music Awards that year, referred to the rapper as a jackass. Mr. West traced his relationship with the former president back to its roots in their shared home of Chicago, where he says Mr. Obama, while still a senator, visited him and his mother to ask for support. I am his favorite artist of all time. Because I am the greatest artist of all time. It only makes sense  hes got good taste, Mr. West said.Mr. West expressed resentment that Mr. Obama never called him to apologize after the video went public, but he also made an attempt at magnanimity. Nobodys perfect, he said. I love Obama. Im sure well hang out, go to Richard Bransons island. Itll be cool. I just think that we were in a period where he had so much stuff to do that he couldnt deal with a wild card like me.It irked Mr. West that Mr. Obama maintained relationships with other members of the hip-hop elite. Im your favorite artist, he said. You played Touch the Sky at your inauguration. And now all of a sudden Kendrick and Jay, all the people you invited to the White House, now these your favorite rappers now?Mr. West also leveled a policy critique at Mr. Obama, accusing him of failing to reduce the murder rate in Chicago (Mr. West has repeated the criticism on Twitter). In the end, however, he returned to expressing compassion for Mr. Obama, alluding to the pressures of being the first black president and ruminating about what he himself might do should he ever ascend to the highest office in the land.This man was the Jackie Robinson of politics, he said. He was the first person to do it. So, you know, we want to be supportive.On imperfectionA black person cant be imperfect in the public eye, thats a form of control, Mr. West said. Im here to show you imperfection. The beauty is in the imperfection.On what he and President Trump have in commonI love challenging the norm, Mr. West said. I love people who dont love him. I love the fact that they speaking up and everybodys just giving their opinions. I been waiting for this moment in time. This is like a Ye moment in time.After Charlamagne described President Trump as hostile to minorities and questioned how Mr. West could genuinely support him, the rapper elaborated. I dont have all the answers that a celeb is supposed to have, he said. But I can tell you that when he was running, its like I felt something. The fact that he won proves something. It proves that anything is possible in America. He added, When I see an outsider infiltrate, I connect with that.Mr. West said that his dream presidential candidate would have the Trump campaign and the Bernie Sanders principles.Im a producer, he said. I like to segue things.On his new musicI want to create music thats therapeutic, Mr. West said. I feel Real Friends is in the territory of what were creating, he added, referring to a song on The Life of Pablo.On starting his own communityAlmost in passing, Mr. West mentioned that he had bought a large amount of property that he planned to build on, telling Charlamagne: I was afraid to show you this 300 acres that I just purchased that Im building my first community on  my first five properties on  because I felt like it would be shut down.On parting ways with his manager, Scooter BraunMy last and final manager was Scooter Braun, Mr. West said. In a tweet last week, he announced that he had parted ways with Mr. Braun, who shepherded Justin Bieber to global pop stardom. I just cant be managed. Whats dope about Scooter at the end of the day: his parents adopted a black child. His brothers black. This is a Jewish guy who understands business but also understands how to communicate on a personal level with a black person. Like on a brother level. Me and Scooter would get on the phone and he would talk to me for hours. And that information meant everything. He was Kanye Wests gateway drug to business.On sound bitesI dont have a sound bite for everything, Mr. West said. When you want to express yourself, a lot of times words can get in the way.
