HOUSTON  When Jose Altuve stepped into the batters box, kicking the dirt as he dug in to face Aroldis Chapman, it would be hard to blame anyone in a Yankee uniform if they didnt take a deep breath and a hard gulp.A Thursday afternoon game the Yankees had already seemed to win three times  including moments before when a final-out strikeout turned into a passed-ball lifeline for the Houston Astros  was now in play.And here it was, with tying and winning runs on base: Chapman, for years the hardest thrower in baseball, against Altuve, the reigning winner of the American League Most Valuable Player Award, who feasts on fastballs.If it was not quite last October and a nail-biting American League Championship Series, it wasnt a bad bit of drama, either. Aaron Boone, the Yankees rookie manager, turned to Carlos Mendoza, his rookie infield coach, and smiled.This is pretty good, isnt it? Boone said he told him. This is our best against the reigning M.V.P. with the game on the line. Embrace that; love it  and our guys do.Chapman, who gave up hits to Altuve the two times he faced him last season  including a crucial one in the playoffs  struck him out on three pitches, all of them blazing fastballs.When Altuve swung through the final one, a belt-high, 101 mile-per-hour heater, Chapman struck a stone-faced pose of defiance, having sealed a 6-5 victory.The victory was the Yankees third in four games here, and their 12th win in the last 13 games. This one recalled many of the games from the last years seven-game A.L.C.S.  rife with swings of momentum, tense at-bats and bullpen meltdowns.The final crumbling came from the Astros, whose manager, A.J. Hinch, did not trust closer Ken Giles  who gave up a game-winning home run to Gary Sanchez on Tuesday  to finish the game.Instead, carrying a 5-3 lead into the top of the ninth, he turned to Will Harris.In his postgame news conference, Hinch twice declined to answer questions why he did not turn to Giles, who said he was available. Said Giles: Im just there when they need me to win a ballgame.In their comeback, the Yankees got pivotal contributions from two players who were far from the mayhem of last falls playoff series: the rookie infielders Miguel Andujar and Gleyber Torres.Andujar watched the A.L.C.S. with his family in the Dominican Republic, while Torres followed from his apartment in Tampa, Fla., where he was recovering from surgery.After Neil Walker drew a walk from Harris to lead off the ninth, Andujar beat an infield shift by poking a 1-2 cutter into the enormous gap on the right side of the infield. Pinch-hitter Aaron Hicks singled to left to load the bases, and Brad Peacock came in to replace Harris.Torres hooked an 0-1 slider down the left-field line and Andujar, with an aggressive jump, scored easily along with Walker to tie it at 5-5 as the ball dropped in front of left fielder Derek Fisher.Torres, who had driven in a run earlier with a sacrifice fly, has played sterling defense and provided timely hits since his recall less than two weeks ago, qualities that might be expected from the organizations top prospect. But he has mostly impressed with how calmly he plays the game.The most important thing is to do simple and not try to put too much pressure on myself, said Torres, 21. For example, on that hit, just try to put the ball in play. Help myself in that situation.Torres showed more calm than Altuve, his fellow Venezuelan whom Torres met for the first time in this series. The Astros were close to escaping the inning after Peacock had retired Brett Gardner on a fly ball to center that was too shallow to score Hicks from third, and Aaron Judge followed with a slow bouncer to third.Alex Bregman, who made the defensive play of the A.L.C.S. cutting down Greg Bird at the plate in Game 7, fielded the ball and delivered a perfect throw to Altuve, who in his haste to turn the double play, dropped the ball while taking it out of his glove. The drop allowed Hicks to score the go-ahead run.Such drama seemed unlikely with the way Masahiro Tanaka had been in control, carrying a three-hit shutout and a 3-0 lead into the seventh inning and extending the Astros scoreless streak in this series to 28 innings.But the unraveling came abruptly.Yuli Gurriel hooked a 1-2 slider just out of the reach of shortstop Didi Gregorius in the hole. Josh Reddick followed by dropping a 2-2 splitter in front of Gardner in center field. On the next pitch, Tanakas inside fastball grazed Bregmans sleeve to load the bases.Boone then summoned Chad Green.Marwin Gonzalez dribbled Greens first pitch toward Gregorius, who had no play by the time he collected the ball. Brian McCann lined the next pitch into right field to score Reddick and bring the Astros within 3-2. Three pitches later, Bregman raced home when Green hooked a 1-1 fastball past catcher Gary Sanchez, who was charged with a passed ball.Suddenly, the scored was tied at 3-3.When Green couldnt handle George Springers hard comebacker, Gonzalez raced home from third to give the Astros the lead. Carlos Correa extended it to 5-3 in the eighth with a blast off Green, who gave up all three hits on sliders.When the Yankees turned to Chapman, he was able to keep the lead safe  but it was not without some tension. He struck out Gonzalez and retired McCann on a pop up, but then a low, two-strike, 101 m.p.h. fastball to Evan Gattis ticked off the glove of Sanchez, who could not locate the ball  which had only bounced a few feet away  in time to throw out Gattis.Springer then followed with a single.Asked, at that point, if he was thinking along with Chapman from his perch in center field, Gardner laughed.Am I thinking along with Chapman? he said. Whats that? Throw harder, throw harder?Chapman, who began the inning throwing between 96 and 98 m.p.h., found another gear with his fastball by the time Altuve came up. The second baseman swung through a 100 m.p.h. fastball, looked at a 101 m.p.h. heater and then whiffed on the final one.Hes as pumped up as anybody when he comes in the game, even though he may not show it, Gardner said. Hes always pretty stoic and serious out there. He loves being in that spot.On this day and in this series, for the Yankees, he was not alone.
