Good morning. Ginia Bellafante has a top-flight bit of sociology in The Times today, a story about the restaurant Freds, in the flagship Barneys store on Madison Avenue  a restaurant in a department store rather than a department-store restaurant, Ginia wrote, which carries a meaningful distinction. It is delicious.As is, as it happens, the restaurants roasted chicken salad (above), which has been for years the most popular item on the menu. You could pick up a rotisserie bird on the way home to make it this evening, if you like, with as many of the other ingredients tumbled into it as you can manage, and pretend youre eating on 61st Street, in advance of a showing of Lean on Pete at the Paris Theatre and a walk home afterward to your suite at the Carlyle.No? Not your scene? (What, did you not like Metropolitan, either?) I like this roasted cauliflower salad with watercress, walnuts and Gruyere from Melissa Clark, just as much. (Here are 21 other vegetarian salads that are stand-alone meals.) I like it especially if I can have this rhubarb crisp for dessert or better yet, have leftover rhubarb crisp for breakfast in the morning, with a big dollop of plain yogurt.You could make a frittata  check out this frittata that is more vegetable than egg, from Mark Bittman. Or you could make Alison Romans garlicky chicken thighs with scallion and lime, which delivers big, big flavors in way less than an hour. Thats great.Mustard-glazed pork tenderloin? Crispy lamb with cumin and scallions? Some blackened fish tacos? NYT Cooking provides. Go browse around the site and apps a little, see what strikes your fancy.(Yes, youll need to sign up for a subscription to do so. As the Barneys kids say, considering the new scalloped cady shift dress from Chloe: Worth it!)Well be standing on the sidelines waiting to help if you run into trouble. Just ask: cookingcare@nytimes.com.But thats not all well be doing. So check us out on Instagram and Twitter, if youd like to see some more beautiful food photography, some inspiration to fill your traps. (You can check us out on Facebook, too. Join the conversation!) We fill our lives with food, so we can be helpful to you in yours.Now, a long boat ride from pommes Anna and cha ca la Wong, can you imagine living off the grid on a little island just off Vinalhaven, on the coast of Maine? This property listing in Boston Magazine is a fun prompt to the imagination.I loved this Pitchfork profile of the artist, musician and producer Liz Harris, by Ben Ratliff, in part for Bens silky prose and in part because of the songs embedded in the story.And there is much to commend, as well, in this Twitter-thread memoir by Seamas OReilly, of the Irish Times, reminiscent of many a loaded first-person yarn in the old New York Press.Finally, a service alert: New Yorkers and those who wish to live like them ought to consider signing up for Margot Boyer-Dry and Tejal Raos new summer-in-the-city newsletter for The Times. Theyre going to be uncovering a lot of interesting things to do here in coming months. I hope you have a great week.
