This week, three reviews document the history and legacy of Broadway. In 1922, Robert Edmond Jones, a leader in American stage design, reviewed The Theatre of Tomorrow by Kenneth Macgowan and considered the role of theater in everyday life. Read an excerpt below:Mr. Macgowan has attempted to combine in one volume a rsum of the so-called new stagecraft, a survey of that theatre of our time and a forecast of its probable development in the future.The book considered in retrospect as a whole is an admirably clear, straightforward and authoritative summing up of our present-day attitude toward the theatre and its outward expression. The clarity of statement brings home to us, as we read, the organic defect of the theatre itself; the fundamental lack of what may be called the poetic attitude. The theatre described in this book is a playhouse where we may find easy, elaborate mechanism, great technical skill and resourcefulness, ready invention, charm and vividness and splendor; but the imagination, true poetic vision, the perception with Plato of the essential character of each individual thing, there is precious little.And yet the poetic vision is the one thing needful to release a spiritual power, indescribably great, for the exaltation of multitudes. It is also so simple, too simple to see; just as the subtle changes of light in the rooms where we spend our lives are too simple to see. The theatre is not life; it is our escape from life, the supreme escape. We go to see plays every day, hundreds of thousands of us go every day, to lay aside for a few hours the burden and the tedium and the horrors of every day existence, to rest for a time secure in the shelter of our dreams. We are entertained or amused or diverted, and we forget. But one day there will come to our theatre a poet of excelling simplicity of heart, of infinite pity and kindness, who can lead us out and away, poor dreamers that we are, into a dream of his own creating, so pure, so real, that through the very perfection of its reality it brings us back, exalted and proud, to face the reality of the life we have left behind.
